TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRDby Harper Lee
《杀死一只知更鸟（To Kill A Mockingbird）》（英文版）
作者：哈柏李（Harper Lee）

一位不顾个人安危，为黑人伸张正义的律师——艾蒂科斯·芬奇。芬奇在南方梅岗城任职，为人正直沉稳，常常不计报酬地为穷人们伸张正义。他对年幼丧母的女儿斯科特与儿子詹姆即严格又慈爱。有一次谈起打鸟时，他对孩子说，不要去杀死知更鸟，因为它们只为人类歌唱，从来不做危害人类的事情。

在当地，歧视黑人的现象十分严重。一天，芬奇去法院为黑人汤姆一案当辩护律师。白人检查官指控汤姆犯有强奸罪，芬奇经过认真调查，发现事实并非如此。于是，在法庭上，他实事求是地进行辩护，把对汤姆的指控一一加以驳斥，最后他要求判汤姆无罪，并且义正辞严地呼吁人们要尊重事实，要维护人类的尊严与平等。可是法官与陪审团都偏信原告的“证词”，仍判汤姆有罪。而且，事情并没有就此结束，持种族偏见的一些白人进而对芬奇一家进行挑衅和恫吓，詹姆与斯科特在参加万圣节庆祝活动时被一伙歹徒袭击，詹姆的胳膊被扭断。面对强暴，芬奇毫不畏缩，他准备继续为汤姆申诉。

主题·人生的善恶问题。善良与罪恶并存，因而应该欣赏他人美德并以同情态度从他人的视角看待生活来理解他人的罪恶。
·罪恶威胁着无辜者。
·同情与理解在良知发展中的作用。
·儿童与知识和道德上的教育。最重要的是教育他们具同情和理解之心，而同情和理解的方式是教育的最佳途径。
·种族歧视与社会等级的虚伪。
·从童年向成年的过渡问题。人活着不泯灭良知而又不丧失希望、不愤世疾俗是可能的。

象征知更鸟（Mockingbird）在字面上与情节没什么联系，但在小说中具有强大象征性。它代表了天真无辜者。而“杀死一只知更鸟”的故事就是一个罪恶毁灭天真无辜者的故事。小说中的杰姆（Jem）、汤姆·鲁滨逊（Tom Robinson）、迪尔（Dill）、布（Boo）、雷蒙德先生（Mr. Raymoud）、梅耶拉·尤厄尔（Mayella Ewell）都是“知更鸟”。

布·拉德力（Boo Radley） “布”在小说中很少露面，但孩子们对“布”的态度的变化是衡量孩子们从童年的天真发展为具有承认的道德观的重要尺度。开始时被残暴的父亲摧毁而足不出户的“布”在孩子们眼中代表了恶魔的恐怖，而随着“布”不断向孩子们赠送小礼物，为杰姆缝补了裤子，他在孩子们眼中的形象也逐渐真实起来。到小说最后，“布”从鲍伯·尤厄尔手中救出了斯各特和杰姆时，在斯各特眼里，“布”已由一个鬼魂变成了一个人。“布”象征了人类的高贵善良品质，尽管曾经受伤害，但内心的纯洁善良贯穿于他整个生命。

DEDICATIONfor Mr. Lee and Alicein consideration of Love & AffectionLawyers, I suppose, were children once.
献给李先生和爱丽丝，考虑到爱与感情，我想，律师也曾经是孩子。

Charles LambPART ONE1When he was nearly thirteen, my brother Jem got his arm badly brokenat the elbow. When it healed, and Jem's fears of never being able toplay football were assuaged, he was seldom self-conscious about hisinjury. His left arm was somewhat shorter than his right; when hestood or walked, the back of his hand was at right angles to his body,his thumb parallel to his thigh. He couldn't have cared less, solong as he could pass and punt.
查尔斯·兰姆 第一部分 1 我哥哥杰姆快十三岁的时候，胳膊肘严重骨折。伤愈后，杰姆对永远无法踢足球的恐惧也烟消云散了，他很少在意自己的伤势。他的左臂比右臂短一些；站立或行走时，他的手背与身体成直角，拇指与大腿平行。他根本不在乎，只要能传球和踢球就行。

When enough years had gone by to enable us to look back on them,we sometimes discussed the events leading to his accident. I maintain that the Ewells started it all, but Jem, who was four yearsmy senior, said it started long before that. He said it began thesummer Dill came to us, when Dill first gave us the idea of making BooRadley come out.
等到足够多的岁月过去，我们才得以回首往事，有时会讨论导致他出事的那些事。我坚持认为这一切都是尤厄尔一家挑起的，但比我大四岁的杰姆说，事情远在那之前就开始了。他说，事情始于迪尔来我们家的那个夏天，迪尔第一次给了我们一个让布·拉德利出柜的主意。

I said if he wanted to take a broad view of the thing, it really began with Andrew Jackson. If General Jackson hadn't run the Creeks upthe creek, Simon Finch would never have paddled up the Alabama, andwhere would we be if he hadn't? We were far too old to settle anargument with a fist-fight, so we consulted Atticus. Our father saidwe were both right.
我说，如果他想从宏观角度看待这件事，那其实是从安德鲁·杰克逊开始的。如果杰克逊将军没有把克里克人赶到河的上游，西蒙·芬奇就永远不会划船溯阿拉巴马河而上，如果他不这样做，我们又会在哪里呢？我们年纪太大，不适合用拳头来解决争吵，所以我们咨询了阿蒂克斯。父亲说我们俩都对。

Being Southerners, it was a source of shame to some members of thefamily that we had no recorded ancestors on either side of theBattle of Hastings. All we had was Simon Finch, a fur-trappingapothecary from Cornwall whose piety was exceeded only by hisstinginess. In England, Simon was irritated by the persecution ofthose who called themselves Methodists at the hands of their moreliberal brethren, and as Simon called himself a Methodist, he workedhis way across the Atlantic to Philadelphia, thence to Jamaica, thenceto Mobile, and up the Saint Stephens. Mindful of John Wesley'sstrictures on the use of many words in buying and selling, Simonmade a pile practicing medicine, but in this pursuit he was unhappylest he be tempted into doing what he knew was not for the glory ofGod, as the putting on of gold and costly apparel. So Simon, havingforgotten his teacher's dictum on the possession of human chattels,bought three slaves and with their aid established a homestead onthe banks of the Alabama River some forty miles above SaintStephens. He returned to Saint Stephens only once, to find a wife, andwith her established a line that ran high to daughters. Simon lived toan impressive age and died rich.
作为南方人，家族中有些成员感到羞耻，因为我们在黑斯廷斯战役的双方都没有记录在案的祖先。我们家族只有西蒙·芬奇，一个来自康沃尔的毛皮猎人药剂师，他的虔诚唯独比不上他的吝啬。在英国，西蒙对那些自称循道宗信徒的人遭受更自由派的弟兄迫害感到愤怒，于是他自称循道宗信徒，一路漂洋过海来到费城，然后到牙买加，再到莫比尔，最后溯圣斯蒂芬河而上。西蒙谨记约翰·卫斯理关于买卖双方使用各种词语的戒律，靠行医发了大财，但从事这一职业时，他最不愿做的就是受到诱惑去做一些他明知并非为了荣耀上帝的事情，比如佩戴金饰和华服。于是，西蒙忘却了老师关于拥有人类动产的教诲，买了三个奴隶，并在他们的帮助下，在圣斯蒂芬斯上游约四十英里的阿拉巴马河畔建立了家园。他只回过圣斯蒂芬斯一次，娶了个妻子，并与她建立了一个家族，家族成员繁衍了许多女儿。西蒙活到了令人瞩目的高龄，去世时却身家丰厚。

It was customary for the men in the family to remain on Simon'shomestead, Finch's Landing, and make their living from cotton. Theplace was self-sufficient: modest in comparison with the empiresaround it, the Landing nevertheless produced everything required tosustain life except ice, wheat flour, and articles of clothing,supplied by river-boats from Mobile.
家族里的男人们通常留在西蒙的宅基地——芬奇码头，以种植棉花为生。这里自给自足：与周围的王国相比，这里规模虽小，但除了冰块、面粉和衣物（这些衣物由来自莫比尔的河船供应）外，这里仍然生产维持生活所需的一切。
Simon would have regarded with impotent fury the disturbance betweenthe North and the South, as it left his descendants stripped ofeverything but their land, yet the tradition of living on the landremained unbroken until well into the twentieth century, when myfather, Atticus Finch, went to Montgomery to read law, and his youngerbrother went to Boston to study medicine. Their sister Alexandra wasthe Finch who remained at the Landing: she married a taciturn manwho spent most of his time lying in a hammock by the river wonderingif his trot-lines were full.
西蒙本应无力地愤怒地看待南北动乱，因为他的后代被剥夺了一切，只剩下土地。然而，在土地上生活的传统却一直延续到二十世纪，直到我的父亲阿蒂克斯·芬奇去蒙哥马利学习法律，他的弟弟去波士顿学医。他们的妹妹亚历山德拉是留在码头的芬奇家：她嫁给了一个沉默寡言的男人，他大部分时间都躺在河边的吊床上，琢磨着他的钓鱼竿是不是钓满了。

When my father was admitted to the bar, he returned to Maycomb andbegan his practice. Maycomb, some twenty miles east of Finch'sLanding, was the county seat of Maycomb County. Atticus's office inthe courthouse contained little more than a hat rack, a spittoon, acheckerboard and an unsullied Code of Alabama. His first two clientswere the last two persons hanged in the Maycomb County jail. Atticushad urged them to accept the state's generosity in allowing them toplead Guilty to second-degree murder and escape with their lives,but they were Haverfords, in Maycomb County a name synonymous withjackass. The Haverfords had dispatched Maycomb's leading blacksmith ina misunderstanding arising from the alleged wrongful detention of amare, were imprudent enough to do it in the presence of threewitnesses, and insisted that the-son-of-a-bitch-had-it-coming-to-himwas a good enough defense for anybody. They persisted in pleadingNot Guilty to first-degree murder, so there was nothing much Atticuscould do for his clients except be present at their departure, anoccasion that was probably the beginning of my father's profounddistaste for the practice of criminal law.
我父亲取得律师资格后，便回到梅科姆开始执业。梅科姆位于芬奇码头以东约二十英里处，是梅科姆县的县治所在地。阿蒂克斯在法院的办公室里，除了一个衣帽架、一个痰盂、一个棋盘和一本未受玷污的《阿拉巴马法典》之外，几乎什么也没有。他的前两位客户是梅科姆县监狱最后两位被绞死的人。阿蒂克斯曾敦促他们接受州政府的宽容，允许他们承认二级谋杀罪，并逃过一劫。但他们是哈弗福德家族的人，在梅科姆县，“哈弗福德”这个名字与“驴子”同义。哈弗福德夫妇因误会阿玛尔被非法拘留而处决了梅科姆镇的铁匠，他们鲁莽地在三个证人面前这样做，并坚称“这狗娘养的自作自受”对任何人来说都足够有力的辩护理由。他们坚持对一级谋杀罪不认罪，所以阿蒂克斯除了在他们离开时在场外，几乎无能为力。这件事或许就是我父亲对刑事法律工作产生深切厌恶的开端。

During his first five years in Maycomb, Atticus practiced economymore than anything; for several years thereafter he invested hisearnings in his brother's education. John Hale Finch was ten yearsyounger than my father, and chose to study medicine at a time whencotton was not worth growing; but after getting Uncle Jack started,Atticus derived a reasonable income from the law. He liked Maycomb, hewas Maycomb County born and bred; he knew his people, they knew him,and because of Simon Finch's industry, Atticus was related by blood ormarriage to nearly every family in the town.
在梅科姆的头五年里，阿蒂克斯最节俭；此后几年，他把挣来的钱都用来供弟弟读书了。约翰·黑尔·芬奇比我父亲小十岁，在棉花不值钱种植的年代，他选择学医；但在杰克叔叔开始了他的学业后，阿蒂克斯靠法律获得了一笔不错的收入。他热爱梅科姆，他是土生土长的梅科姆县人；他了解梅科姆的居民，他们也了解他。由于西蒙·芬奇的勤奋，阿蒂克斯几乎和镇上每户人家都有血缘或姻亲关系。

Maycomb was an old town, but it was a tired old town when I firstknew it. In rainy weather the streets turned to red slop; grass grewon the sidewalks, the courthouse sagged in the square. Somehow, it washotter then: a black dog suffered on a summer's day; bony muleshitched to Hoover carts flicked flies in the sweltering shade of thelive oaks on the square. Men's stiff collars wilted by nine in themorning. Ladies bathed before noon, after their three-o'clock naps,and by nightfall were like soft teacakes with frostings of sweat andsweet talcum.
梅科姆是一座老城，但我第一次认识它时，它却显得有些老气。雨天，街道变成了红色的泥浆；人行道上杂草丛生，广场上的法院摇摇欲坠。不知何故，那时的天气更热：夏日里，一只黑狗正在受苦；拴在胡佛牌扫地车上的瘦骨嶙峋的骡子在广场上橡树的闷热树荫下驱赶苍蝇。男人们硬挺的衣领早上九点就皱巴巴的。女士们中午之前洗澡，下午三点小憩之后，到了晚上，她们就像沾满汗水和甜滑石粉的松软茶饼。

　　People moved slowly then. They ambled across the square, shuffled inand out of the stores around it, took their time about everything. Aday was twenty-four hours long but seemed longer. There was nohurry, for there was nowhere to go, nothing to buy and no money to buyit with, nothing to see outside the boundaries of Maycomb County.
那时人们行动缓慢。他们漫步穿过广场，在周围的商店里进进出出，做任何事都慢条斯理。一天其实只有二十四小时，却感觉更长。人们并不着急，因为没地方可去，没东西可买，也没钱买，梅科姆县以外也没什么可看的。

　　But it was a time of vague optimism for some of the people: MaycombCounty had recently been told that it had nothing to fear but fearitself.
但对于一些人来说，这是一个充满模糊乐观的时期：梅科姆县最近被告知，除了恐惧本身之外，它没有什么可恐惧的。

　　We lived on the main residential street in town- Atticus, Jem and I,plus Calpurnia our cook. Jem and I found our father satisfactory: heplayed with us, read to us, and treated us with courteous detachment.
我们住在镇上的主要住宅街上——阿蒂克斯、杰姆和我，还有我们的厨娘卡尔普尼亚。杰姆和我都觉得父亲很满意：他陪我们玩，给我们读书，对我们彬彬有礼，又不失亲和力。

　　Calpurnia was something else again. She was all angles and bones;she was nearsighted; she squinted; her hand was wide as a bed slat andtwice as hard. She was always ordering me out of the kitchen, askingme why I couldn't behave as well as Jem when she knew he was older,and calling me home when I wasn't ready to come. Our battles were epicand one-sided. Calpurnia always won, mainly because Atticus alwaystook her side. She had been with us ever since Jem was born, and I hadfelt her tyrannical presence as long as I could remember.
卡尔珀尼亚又变了一个人。她瘦骨嶙峋，近视，斜视，手掌宽如床板，却比床板硬一倍。她总是命令我离开厨房，问我为什么不能像杰姆那样乖巧，明知道杰姆年纪大，还总是在我还没准备好回家的时候叫我回家。我们的争斗史诗般激烈，而且一边倒。卡尔珀尼亚总是赢，主要是因为阿蒂克斯总是站在她那边。自从杰姆出生以来，她就一直和我们在一起，从我记事起，她就一直专横跋扈。

　　Our mother died when I was two, so I never felt her absence. She wasa Graham from Montgomery; Atticus met her when he was first elected tothe state legislature. He was middle-aged then, she was fifteenyears his junior. Jem was the product of their first year of marriage;four years later I was born, and two years later our mother diedfrom a sudden heart attack. They said it ran in her family. I didnot miss her, but I think Jem did. He remembered her clearly, andsometimes in the middle of a game he would sigh at length, then go offand play by himself behind the car-house. When he was like that, Iknew better than to bother him.
我两岁时母亲就去世了，所以我从未感到她不在身边。她是蒙哥马利市的格雷厄姆家的人；阿蒂克斯第一次当选州议员时认识了她。当时他已是中年，她比他小十五岁。杰姆是他们婚后第一年生的；四年后我出生了，两年后母亲突发心脏病去世。据说她家有心脏病。我并不想念她，但我想杰姆很想念。他清楚地记得她，有时打球打到一半，他会长长地叹一口气，然后独自一人躲到车库后面玩。当他这样的时候，我知道最好不要去打扰他。

　　When I was almost six and Jem was nearly ten, our summertimeboundaries （within calling distance of Calpurnia） were Mrs. HenryLafayette Dubose's house two doors to the north of us, and theRadley Place three doors to the south. We were never tempted tobreak them. The Radley Place was inhabited by an unknown entity themere description of whom was enough to make us behave for days on end;Mrs. Dubose was plain hell.
我快六岁，杰姆快十岁的时候，我们夏天的界限（在卡尔珀尼亚能叫得动的范围内）是亨利·拉斐特·杜博斯太太的房子，离我们北边两户人家，以及拉德利家，离我们南边三户人家。我们从未想过要突破这些界限。拉德利家住着一个不知名的生物——光是描述一下就足以让我们乖乖听话好几天；而杜博斯太太简直就是地狱。
　　That was the summer Dill came to us.
那年夏天，迪尔来到了我们身边。
　　Early one morning as we were beginning our day's play in the backyard, Jem and I heard something next door in Miss Rachel Haverford'scollard patch. We went to the wire fence to see if there was apuppy- Miss Rachel's rat terrier was expecting- instead we foundsomeone sitting looking at us. Sitting down, he wasn't much higherthan the collards. We stared at him until he spoke:
一天清晨，我们正准备在后院玩耍，杰姆和我听到隔壁雷切尔·哈弗福德小姐家的羽衣甘蓝地里有动静。我们走到铁丝网边，想看看有没有小狗——雷切尔小姐家的猎鼠梗快要生了——结果却发现一个人正坐在那里看着我们。他坐着，个子比羽衣甘蓝高不了多少。我们一直盯着他，直到他开口说话：
　　"Hey.""Hey yourself," said Jem pleasantly. ...
　　"I'm Charles Baker Harris," he said. "I can read.""So what?" I said. ...
　　"I just thought you'd like to know I can read. You got anythingneeds readin' I can do it…""How old are you," asked Jem, "four-and-a-half?""Goin' on seven.""Shoot no wonder, then," said Jem, jerking his thumb at me. "Scoutyonder's been readin' ever since she was born, and she ain't evenstarted to school yet. You look right puny for goin' on seven.""I'm little but I'm old," he said.
“我就是觉得你想知道我会读书。你有什么需要读的，我都能读……”“你多大了？”杰姆问，“四岁半？”“快七岁了。”“那也难怪，”杰姆说着，朝我扬了扬拇指。“童子军从出生就开始读书了，她还没上学呢。你都快七岁了，看起来真是瘦小。”“我个子小，但年纪大了，”他说。
　　Jem brushed his hair back to get a better look. "Why don't youcome over, Charles Baker Harris?" he said. "Lord, what a name.""'s not any funnier'n yours. Aunt Rachel says your name's JeremyAtticus Finch."Jem scowled. "I'm big enough to fit mine," he said. "Your name'slonger'n you are. Bet it's a foot longer.""Folks call me Dill," said Dill, struggling under the fence.
杰姆把头发往后梳，好仔细地看。“查尔斯·贝克·哈里斯，你过来吧？”他说。“天哪，这名字真怪。”“一点也不比你的名字好笑。雷切尔姑妈说你叫杰里米·阿蒂克斯·芬奇。”杰姆皱起了眉头。“我的个子够大，可以装下我的名字，”他说。“你的名字比你还长。我敢打赌，肯定长一英尺。”“大家都叫我迪尔，”迪尔一边说着，一边费力地从篱笆底下钻了过去。
　　"Do better if you go over it instead of under it," I said.
我说：“如果你从上面走，而不是从下面走，效果会更好。”
　　"Where'd you come from?"Dill was from Meridian, Mississippi, was spending the summer withhis aunt, Miss Rachel, and would be spending every summer in Maycombfrom now on. His family was from Maycomb County originally, his motherworked for a photographer in Meridian, had entered his picture in aBeautiful Child contest and won five dollars. She gave the money toDill, who went to the picture show twenty times on it.
“你从哪儿来的？”迪尔来自密西西比州的默里迪恩，今年夏天和他姨妈雷切尔小姐一起过，从现在起，他每年夏天都会在梅科姆度过。他家原本是梅科姆县人，他母亲在默里迪恩为一位摄影师工作，他曾为他拍过一张“美丽儿童”的照片，赢了五美元。她把钱给了迪尔，迪尔凭着这笔钱去了二十次电影展。
　　"Don't have any picture shows here, except Jesus ones in thecourthouse sometimes," said Jem. "Ever see anything good?"Dill had seen Dracula, * a revelation that moved Jem to eye himwith the beginning of respect. "Tell it to us," he said.
“除了法院里偶尔放映耶稣主题的电影外，这里什么电影都没放，”杰姆说。“看过什么好片吗？”迪尔看过《德古拉》，*这番话让杰姆不禁对他刮目相看，眼里流露出一丝敬意。“给我们讲讲吧，”他说。
　　* In DOS versions italicized text is enclosed in chevrons.
* 在 DOS 版本中，斜体文本用 V 形符号括起来。
　　Dill was a curiosity. He wore blue linen shorts that buttoned to hisshirt, his hair was snow white and stuck to his head like duckfluff;he was a year my senior but I towered over him. As he told us theold tale his blue eyes would lighten and darken; his laugh wassudden and happy; he habitually pulled at a cowlick in the center ofhis forehead.
迪尔是个怪人。他穿着蓝色亚麻短裤，扣子一直扣到衬衫上，头发雪白，像鸭毛一样贴在头上；他比我大一岁，但我个子比他高。他给我们讲那个老故事的时候，蓝色的眼睛一会儿亮一会儿暗；他的笑声总是突然而愉快地响起；他习惯性地捋了捋额头中央的卷发。
　　When Dill reduced Dracula to dust, and Jem said the show soundedbetter than the book, I asked Dill where his father was: "You ain'tsaid anything about him.""I haven't got one.""Is he dead?""No…""Then if he's not dead you've got one, haven't you?"Dill blushed and Jem told me to hush, a sure sign that Dill had beenstudied and found acceptable. Thereafter the summer passed inroutine contentment. Routine contentment was: improving ourtreehouse that rested between giant twin chinaberry trees in theback yard, fussing, running through our list of dramas based on theworks of Oliver Optic, Victor Appleton, and Edgar Rice Burroughs. Inthis matter we were lucky to have Dill. He played the characterparts formerly thrust upon me- the ape in Tarzan, Mr. Crabtree inThe Rover Boys, Mr. Damon in Tom Swift. Thus we came to knowDill as a pocket Merlin, whose head teemed with eccentric plans,strange longings, and quaint fancies.
当迪尔把德古拉化为齑粉，杰姆说电视剧比书更精彩时，我问迪尔他父亲在哪儿：“你什么都没提。”“我没有找到他。”“他死了吗？”“没有……”“那如果他没死，你肯定找到一个了，对吧？”迪尔脸红了，杰姆让我安静，这无疑表明迪尔已经被研究过了，而且他可以接受。之后，整个夏天都在例行的满足中度过。例行的满足就是：装修我们位于后院两棵巨大的楝树之间的树屋，忙活，翻看我们根据奥利弗·奥普蒂克、维克多·阿普尔顿和埃德加·赖斯·巴勒斯的作品改编的戏剧。在这件事上，我们很幸运有迪尔。他演绎了以前强加给我的角色——《泰山》里的猿猴，《流浪男孩》里的克拉布特里先生，《汤姆·斯威夫特》里的达蒙先生。因此，我们知道了迪尔就像一只袖珍梅林，他的脑袋里充满了古怪的计划、奇怪的渴望和稀奇古怪的幻想。
　　But by the end of August our repertoire was vapid from countlessreproductions, and it was then that Dill gave us the idea of makingBoo Radley come out.
但到了八月底，我们的曲目已经因为无数次的复制而变得索然无味，就在那时，迪尔给了我们一个让布·拉德利出来的想法。
　　The Radley Place fascinated Dill. In spite of our warnings andexplanations it drew him as the moon draws water, but drew him nonearer than the light-pole on the corner, a safe distance from theRadley gate. There he would stand, his arm around the fat pole,staring and wondering.
拉德利家让迪尔着迷。尽管我们一再警告和解释，它还是像月亮吸引水一样吸引着他，只是把他引到街角的灯杆附近，离拉德利家的大门还有一段安全距离。他会站在那里，搂着那根粗粗的灯杆，盯着看，琢磨着什么。
　　The Radley Place jutted into a sharp curve beyond our house. Walkingsouth, one faced its porch; the sidewalk turned and ran beside thelot. The house was low, was once white with a deep front porch andgreen shutters, but had long ago darkened to the color of theslate-gray yard around it. Rain-rotted shingles drooped over the eavesof the veranda; oak trees kept the sun away. The remains of a picketdrunkenly guarded the front yard- a "swept" yard that was never swept-where johnson grass and rabbit-tobacco grew in abundance.
拉德利家的房子在我们家门外急转弯。向南走，一眼望去就是门廊；人行道拐弯，沿着地块延伸。房子很矮，曾经是白色的，有着深深的前廊和绿色的百叶窗，但很久以前就变暗了，变成了周围石板灰色院子的颜色。被雨水侵蚀的木瓦垂在阳台的屋檐上；橡树遮住了阳光。一根桩柱的残骸醉醺醺地守护着前院——一个从未清扫过的“清扫过”的院子——那里长满了野甘草和兔子烟草。
　　Inside the house lived a malevolent phantom. People said he existed,but Jem and I had never seen him. People said he went out at nightwhen the moon was down, and peeped in windows. When people's azaleasfroze in a cold snap, it was because he had breathed on them. Anystealthy small crimes committed in Maycomb were his work. Once thetown was terrorized by a series of morbid nocturnal events: people'schickens and household pets were found mutilated; although the culpritwas Crazy Addie, who eventually drowned himself in Barker's Eddy,people still looked at the Radley Place, unwilling to discard theirinitial suspicions. A Negro would not pass the Radley Place atnight, he would cut across to the sidewalk opposite and whistle ashe walked. The Maycomb school grounds adjoined the back of theRadley lot; from the Radley chickenyard tall pecan trees shook theirfruit into the schoolyard, but the nuts lay untouched by the children:
房子里住着一个恶毒的幽灵。人们说他存在，但我和杰姆从未见过他。人们说他晚上月亮下山后就出去，从窗户往里偷看。人们家的杜鹃花在寒流中冻僵了，那是因为他朝它们吹了口气。梅科姆镇上所有偷偷摸摸的小偷小摸的罪行都是他干的。有一次，镇上发生了一系列可怕的夜间事件：人们的鸡和宠物被发现残缺不全；虽然凶手是疯子艾迪，他最终在巴克漩涡里淹死了自己，但人们仍然盯着拉德利家，不愿放弃最初的怀疑。黑人晚上不会经过拉德利家，他会抄近路到对面的人行道上，边走边吹口哨。梅科姆学校的操场紧邻拉德利家的后院；拉德利鸡场里，高大的山核桃树把果实摇落到校园里，但孩子们却没有动过这些坚果：
　　Radley pecans would kill you. A baseball hit into the Radley yardwas a lost ball and no questions asked.
拉德利山核桃会要了你的命。棒球打进拉德利家的院子里，就算丢球，也没什么问题。
　　The misery of that house began many years before Jem and I wereborn. The Radleys, welcome anywhere in town, kept to themselves, apredilection unforgivable in Maycomb. They did not go to church,Maycomb's principal recreation, but worshiped at home; Mrs. Radleyseldom if ever crossed the street for a mid-morning coffee breakwith her neighbors, and certainly never joined a missionary circle.
那栋房子的悲惨境遇始于杰姆和我出生前很多年。拉德利一家在镇上随处可见，却又独来独往，这种癖好在梅科姆是不可饶恕的。他们不去教堂——梅科姆的主要娱乐活动——而是在家里做礼拜；拉德利太太几乎从不穿过马路去和邻居们喝上午的咖啡，当然也从未加入过传教士圈子。
　　Mr. Radley walked to town at eleven-thirty every morning and came backpromptly at twelve, sometimes carrying a brown paper bag that theneighborhood assumed contained the family groceries. I never knewhow old Mr. Radley made his living- Jem said he "bought cotton," apolite term for doing nothing- but Mr. Radley and his wife had livedthere with their two sons as long as anybody could remember.
拉德利先生每天早上十一点半步行进镇，十二点准时回家，有时还会提着一个棕色纸袋，邻居们以为里面装着家里的杂货。我从来不知道拉德利先生靠什么谋生——杰姆说他“买棉花”，这是对无所事事的委婉说法——但自从人们记事以来，拉德利先生和他的妻子以及他们的两个儿子就一直住在那里。
　　The shutters and doors of the Radley house were closed on Sundays,another thing alien to Maycomb's ways: closed doors meant illnessand cold weather only. Of all days Sunday was the day for formalafternoon visiting: ladies wore corsets, men wore coats, children woreshoes. But to climb the Radley front steps and call, "He-y," of aSunday afternoon was something their neighbors never did. The Radleyhouse had no screen doors. I once asked Atticus if it ever had any;Atticus said yes, but before I was born.
拉德利家的门窗在星期天都关着，这又与梅科姆的习俗格格不入：关门只意味着生病和寒冷的天气。偏偏星期天是正式的下午拜访的日子：女士们穿紧身胸衣，男士们穿外套，孩子们穿鞋。但星期天下午爬上拉德利家的前台阶，喊一声“喂”，是邻居们从来不会做的事。拉德利家没有纱门。我曾经问过阿蒂克斯，他们家有没有纱门；阿蒂克斯说有，但那是在我出生之前。
　　According to neighborhood legend, when the younger Radley boy was inhis teens he became acquainted with some of the Cunninghams from OldSarum, an enormous and confusing tribe domiciled in the northernpart of the county, and they formed the nearest thing to a gang everseen in Maycomb. They did little, but enough to be discussed by thetown and publicly warned from three pulpits: they hung around thebarbershop; they rode the bus to Abbottsville on Sundays and went tothe picture show; they attended dances at the county's riversidegambling hell, the Dew-Drop Inn & Fishing Camp; they experimented withstumphole whiskey. Nobody in Maycomb had nerve enough to tell Mr.
据邻居们传说，拉德利家的小男孩十几岁时结识了来自老萨鲁姆的坎宁安家族——一个庞大而混乱的部落，居住在梅科姆郡北部——的几个人，他们组成了梅科姆郡有史以来最接近帮派的组织。他们做的不多，但足以引起镇上的讨论，并在三个讲坛上公开警告：他们在理发店附近徘徊；他们星期天乘公共汽车去阿伯茨维尔看电影；他们参加县里河畔赌场“露珠旅馆和钓鱼营”的舞会；他们还尝试过树桩洞威士忌。梅科姆郡没有人胆敢告诉坎宁安先生……
　　Radley that his boy was in with the wrong crowd.
拉德利说他的儿子与坏人为伍。
　　One night, in an excessive spurt of high spirits, the boys backedaround the square in a borrowed flivver, resisted arrest byMaycomb's ancient beadle, Mr. Conner, and locked him in the courthouseouthouse. The town decided something had to be done; Mr. Conner saidhe knew who each and every one of them was, and he was bound anddetermined they wouldn't get away with it, so the boys came before theprobate judge on charges of disorderly conduct, disturbing thepeace, assault and battery, and using abusive and profane languagein the presence and hearing of a female. The judge asked Mr. Connerwhy he included the last charge; Mr. Conner said they cussed so loudhe was sure every lady in Maycomb heard them. The judge decided tosend the boys to the state industrial school, where boys weresometimes sent for no other reason than to provide them with foodand decent shelter: it was no prison and it was no disgrace. Mr.
一天晚上，男孩们情绪过于亢奋，开着一辆借来的敞篷车在广场上倒车，拒捕梅科姆镇的老执事康纳先生，并将他锁在了法院的外屋里。镇上的人决定必须采取措施；康纳先生说他知道他们每个人的身份，他决心不让他们逍遥法外，于是男孩们来到遗嘱认证法官面前，被指控扰乱治安、扰乱治安、人身攻击以及在女性面前使用辱骂和亵渎的语言。法官问康纳先生为什么加上最后一项指控；康纳先生说他们骂人的声音太大了，他确信梅科姆镇的每一位女士都听到了。法官决定把男孩们送到州立职业学校，有时送男孩去那里只是为了给他们提供食物和舒适的住所：那里既不是监狱，也不是什么耻辱。
　　Radley thought it was. If the judge released Arthur, Mr. Radleywould see to it that Arthur gave no further trouble. Knowing thatMr. Radley's word was his bond, the judge was glad to do so.
拉德利心想，的确如此。如果法官释放亚瑟，拉德利先生会确保亚瑟不再惹麻烦。法官知道拉德利先生言出必行，所以很乐意这么做。
　　The other boys attended the industrial school and received thebest secondary education to be had in the state; one of themeventually worked his way through engineering school at Auburn. Thedoors of the Radley house were closed on weekdays as well asSundays, and Mr. Radley's boy was not seen again for fifteen years.
其他男孩就读于工业学校，获得了该州最好的中学教育；其中一个最终通过努力考入了奥本的工程学院。拉德利家的大门在工作日和周日都关闭，拉德利先生的儿子此后十五年再也没有露面。
　　But there came a day, barely within Jem's memory, when Boo Radleywas heard from and was seen by several people, but not by Jem. He saidAtticus never talked much about the Radleys: when Jem would questionhim Atticus's only answer was for him to mind his own business and letthe Radleys mind theirs, they had a right to; but when it happened Jemsaid Atticus shook his head and said, "Mm, mm, mm."So Jem received most of his information from Miss StephanieCrawford, a neighborhood scold, who said she knew the whole thing.
但有一天，杰姆几乎记不清了，布·拉德利的消息传来，也有几个人见过他，唯独杰姆没见到。他说阿蒂克斯很少提起拉德利一家：杰姆问他的时候，阿蒂克斯唯一的回答就是让他管好自己的事，让拉德利一家管好他们的事，他们有权这么做；但杰姆说，阿蒂克斯摇摇头，说着“嗯，嗯，嗯。”于是，杰姆的大部分信息都来自邻居斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐，她自称对一切都了如指掌。
　　According to Miss Stephanie, Boo was sitting in the livingroom cuttingsome items from The Maycomb Tribune to paste in his scrapbook. Hisfather entered the room. As Mr. Radley passed by, Boo drove thescissors into his parent's leg, pulled them out, wiped them on hispants, and resumed his activities.
据斯蒂芬妮小姐说，布正坐在客厅里，从《梅科姆论坛报》上剪下一些东西，贴在他的剪贴簿上。他的父亲走进房间。拉德利先生走过时，布把剪刀扎进了他父母的腿上，拔出来，在裤子上擦了擦，然后继续他的活动。
　　Mrs. Radley ran screaming into the street that Arthur was killingthem all, but when the sheriff arrived he found Boo still sitting inthe livingroom, cutting up the Tribune. He was thirty-three yearsold then.
拉德利太太尖叫着跑到街上，说亚瑟要把他们都杀了。但警长赶到时，发现布还坐在客厅里，正在剪《论坛报》。那时他三十三岁。
　　Miss Stephanie said old Mr. Radley said no Radley was going to anyasylum, when it was suggested that a season in Tuscaloosa might behelpful to Boo. Boo wasn't crazy, he was high-strung at times. Itwas all right to shut him up, Mr. Radley conceded, but insisted thatBoo not be charged with anything: he was not a criminal. The sheriffhadn't the heart to put him in jail alongside Negroes, so Boo waslocked in the courthouse basement.
斯蒂芬妮小姐说，当有人建议布去塔斯卡卢萨待一段时间或许对布有帮助时，老拉德利先生却说拉德利不会去精神病院。布并没有疯，只是有时神经紧张。拉德利先生承认，让他闭嘴没问题，但他坚持不指控布任何罪名：他不是罪犯。警长不忍心把他和黑人一起关进监狱，所以布被锁在了法院的地下室里。
　　Boo's transition from the basement to back home was nebulous inJem's memory. Miss Stephanie Crawford said some of the town counciltold Mr. Radley that if he didn't take Boo back, Boo would die of moldfrom the damp. Besides, Boo could not live forever on the bounty ofthe county.
在杰姆的记忆中，布从地下室到家的转变过程很模糊。斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐说，镇议会的一些人告诉拉德利先生，如果他不把布带回来，布就会因为潮湿发霉而死。再说，布不可能永远靠县里的恩惠过活。
　　Nobody knew what form of intimidation Mr. Radley employed to keepBoo out of sight, but Jem figured that Mr. Radley kept him chainedto the bed most of the time. Atticus said no, it wasn't that sort ofthing, that there were other ways of making people into ghosts.
没人知道拉德利先生用了什么恐吓手段让布不见踪影，但杰姆猜想，拉德利先生大部分时间都把他拴在床上。阿蒂克斯说，不是那样的，还有其他方法可以把人变成鬼魂。
　　My memory came alive to see Mrs. Radley occasionally open thefront door, walk to the edge of the porch, and pour water on hercannas. But every day Jem and I would see Mr. Radley walking to andfrom town. He was a thin leathery man with colorless eyes, socolorless they did not reflect light. His cheekbones were sharp andhis mouth was wide, with a thin upper lip and a full lower lip. MissStephanie Crawford said he was so upright he took the word of God ashis only law, and we believed her, because Mr. Radley's posture wasramrod straight.
我的记忆中，拉德利太太偶尔会打开前门，走到门廊边，给她的美人蕉浇水。但每天杰姆和我都会看到拉德利先生走来走去，往返于镇上。他身材瘦削，皮肤粗糙，眼睛毫无血色，甚至反光都看不出来。他的颧骨很高，嘴巴很大，上唇薄，下唇丰满。斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐说他为人正直，把上帝的话语奉为唯一的律法，我们相信她，因为拉德利先生的姿势笔直。
　　He never spoke to us. When he passed we would look at the ground andsay, "Good morning, sir," and he would cough in reply. Mr. Radley'selder son lived in Pensacola; he came home at Christmas, and he wasone of the few persons we ever saw enter or leave the place. Fromthe day Mr. Radley took Arthur home, people said the house died.
他从不跟我们说话。他走过的时候，我们会低头说：“先生，早上好。”他会咳嗽一声回应。拉德利先生的大儿子住在彭萨科拉；他圣诞节回家，他是我们见过的少数几个进出这栋房子的人之一。从拉德利先生把亚瑟带回家的那天起，人们就说这栋房子死了。
　　But there came a day when Atticus told us he'd wear us out if wemade any noise in the yard and commissioned Calpurnia to serve inhis absence if she heard a sound out of us. Mr. Radley was dying.
可是有一天，阿蒂克斯对我们说，如果我们在院子里发出任何声音，他就会把我们折磨得精疲力尽，并吩咐卡尔珀尼亚在他不在的时候，如果她听到我们有任何动静就去伺候。拉德利先生快要死了。
　　He took his time about it. Wooden sawhorses blocked the road at eachend of the Radley lot, straw was put down on the sidewalk, traffic wasdiverted to the back street. Dr. Reynolds parked his car in front ofour house and walked to the Radley's every time he called. Jem and Icrept around the yard for days. At last the sawhorses were taken away,and we stood watching from the front porch when Mr. Radley made hisfinal journey past our house.
他不慌不忙地处理这件事。拉德利家地皮的两端都用木锯木架堵住了路，人行道上铺上了稻草，车辆被引导到后街。雷诺兹医生把车停在我们家门前，每次来访都步行去拉德利家。我和杰姆在院子里蹑手蹑脚地走了好几天。最后，锯木架被搬走了，我们站在前廊看着拉德利先生最后一次经过我们家。
　　"There goes the meanest man ever God blew breath into," murmuredCalpurnia, and she spat meditatively into the yard. We looked at herin surprise, for Calpurnia rarely commented on the ways of whitepeople.
“上帝吹过的最卑鄙的人来了，”卡尔普尼亚低声说道，沉思着朝院子里吐了一口唾沫。我们惊讶地看着她，因为卡尔普尼亚很少评论白人的行事作风。
　　The neighborhood thought when Mr. Radley went under Boo would comeout, but it had another think coming: Boo's elder brother returnedfrom Pensacola and took Mr. Radley's place. The only differencebetween him and his father was their ages. Jem said Mr. NathanRadley "bought cotton," too. Mr. Nathan would speak to us, however,when we said good morning, and sometimes we saw him coming from townwith a magazine in his hand.
邻居们以为拉德利先生倒闭后，布会出来，但没想到的是：布的哥哥从彭萨科拉回来接替了拉德利先生的位置。他和父亲唯一的区别就是年龄。杰姆说内森·拉德利先生也“买棉花”。不过，当我们打招呼时，内森先生会跟我们说话，有时我们会看到他手里拿着杂志从镇上走来。
　　The more we told Dill about the Radleys, the more he wanted to know,the longer he would stand hugging the light-pole on the corner, themore he would wonder.
我们告诉迪尔关于拉德利一家的事情越多，他就越想知道，他站在街角的灯柱旁的时间越长，他就越感到好奇。
　　"Wonder what he does in there," he would murmur. "Looks like he'djust stick his head out the door."Jem said, "He goes out, all right, when it's pitch dark. MissStephanie Crawford said she woke up in the middle of the night onetime and saw him looking straight through the window at her… saidhis head was like a skull lookin' at her. Ain't you ever waked up atnight and heard him, Dill? He walks like this-" Jem slid his feetthrough the gravel. "Why do you think Miss Rachel locks up so tight atnight? I've seen his tracks in our back yard many a mornin', and onenight I heard him scratching on the back screen, but he was gonetime Atticus got there.""Wonder what he looks like?" said Dill.
“不知道他在里面干什么，”他低声说，“看起来他好像会把头探出门外。”杰姆说，“他确实会在漆黑一片的时候出去。斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐说她有一次半夜醒来，看到他透过窗户直视着她……说他的头像个骷髅一样看着她。迪尔，你晚上醒来没听到过他的声音吗？他走路的样子像这样——”杰姆把脚滑过碎石路。“你觉得雷切尔小姐为什么晚上锁得那么紧？我很多个早上都在后院看到过他的足迹，有天晚上我还听到他在后面的纱窗上抓挠，但阿蒂克斯到的时候他已经走了。”“不知道他长什么样？”迪尔说。
　　Jem gave a reasonable description of Boo: Boo was aboutsix-and-a-half feet tall, judging from his tracks; he dined on rawsquirrels and any cats he could catch, that's why his hands werebloodstained- if you ate an animal raw, you could never wash the bloodoff. There was a long jagged scar that ran across his face; what teethhe had were yellow and rotten; his eyes popped, and he drooled most ofthe time.
杰姆对布的描述很贴切：从他的足迹判断，布大约六英尺半高；他吃生松鼠和任何能抓到的猫，所以他的手上沾满了血——如果你生吃动物，血迹就永远洗不掉。他脸上有一道长长的锯齿状疤痕；他仅有的牙齿又黄又烂；他的眼睛凸出来，而且经常流口水。
　　"Let's try to make him come out," said Dill. "I'd like to see whathe looks like."Jem said if Dill wanted to get himself killed, all he had to dowas go up and knock on the front door.
“我们试着把他弄出来吧，”迪尔说，“我倒要看看他长什么样。”杰姆说，如果迪尔想自杀，他只要上前敲前门就行了。
　　Our first raid came to pass only because Dill bet Jem The GrayGhost against two Tom Swifts that Jem wouldn't get any farther thanthe Radley gate. In all his life, Jem had never declined a dare.
我们第一次突袭之所以能成功，是因为迪尔跟“灰鬼”杰姆和两个“汤姆·斯威夫特”打赌，说杰姆进不了拉德利门。杰姆这辈子从来没拒绝过任何挑战。
　　Jem thought about it for three days. I suppose he loved honor morethan his head, for Dill wore him down easily: "You're scared," Dillsaid, the first day. "Ain't scared, just respectful," Jem said. Thenext day Dill said, "You're too scared even to put your big toe in thefront yard." Jem said he reckoned he wasn't, he'd passed the RadleyPlace every school day of his life.
杰姆想了三天。我猜他爱荣誉胜过爱脑袋，因为迪尔很容易就把他打倒了：“你害怕了，”迪尔第一天说。“不害怕，只是有点儿尊敬，”杰姆说。第二天迪尔说：“你害怕得连大脚趾都不敢伸进前院。”杰姆说他估计他不害怕，因为他上学那会儿每天都会经过拉德利家。
　　"Always runnin'," I said. ...
　　But Dill got him the third day, when he told Jem that folks inMeridian certainly weren't as afraid as the folks in Maycomb, thathe'd never seen such scary folks as the ones in Maycomb.
但第三天迪尔抓住了他，他告诉杰姆，默里迪恩的人们肯定没有梅科姆的人们那么害怕，他从来没有见过像梅科姆的人们那么可怕的人。
　　This was enough to make Jem march to the corner, where he stoppedand leaned against the light-pole, watching the gate hanging crazilyon its homemade hinge.
这足以让杰姆走到拐角处，停下来，靠在灯柱上，看着大门疯狂地挂在自制的铰链上。
　　"I hope you've got it through your head that he'll kill us eachand every one, Dill Harris," said Jem, when we joined him. "Don'tblame me when he gouges your eyes out. You started it, remember.""You're still scared," murmured Dill patiently.
“我希望你已经明白，他会把我们每个人都杀了，迪尔·哈里斯，”我们走到杰姆身边时，杰姆说道。“等他把你的眼睛挖出来，别怪我。记住，是你先挑起事的。”“你还是害怕的，”迪尔耐心地低声说道。
　　Jem wanted Dill to know once and for all that he wasn't scared ofanything: "It's just that I can't think of a way to make him comeout without him gettin' us." Besides, Jem had his little sister tothink of.
杰姆想让迪尔彻底明白，他什么都不怕：“我只是实在想不出什么办法让他出来而不被我们抓走。”再说，杰姆还要考虑他的妹妹。
　　When he said that, I knew he was afraid. Jem had his little sisterto think of the time I dared him to jump off the top of the house: "IfI got killed, what'd become of you?" he asked. Then he jumped,landed unhurt, and his sense of responsibility left him untilconfronted by the Radley Place.
听他这么说，我知道他害怕了。杰姆让他妹妹想起了那次我怂恿他从房顶跳下去的情景：“如果我死了，你怎么办？”他问道。然后他跳了下去，毫发无损地落地，他的责任感也随之消散，直到面对拉德利家。
　　"You gonna run out on a dare?" asked Dill. "If you are, then-""Dill, you have to think about these things," Jem said. "Lemme thinka minute… it's sort of like making a turtle come out…""How's that?" asked Dill.
“你要去参加一个挑战吗？”迪尔问。“如果你要去，那么——”“迪尔，你得好好想想这些事，”杰姆说。“让我想想……这有点像让乌龟出来……”“怎么回事？”迪尔问。
　　"Strike a match under him."I told Jem if he set fire to the Radley house I was going to tellAtticus on him.
“在他身下划一根火柴。”我告诉杰姆，如果他放火烧了拉德利家的房子，我就告诉阿蒂克斯。
　　Dill said striking a match under a turtle was hateful.
迪尔说，在乌龟下面划火柴是可恶的行为。
　　"Ain't hateful, just persuades him- 's not like you'd chunk him inthe fire," Jem growled.
“不是可恶，只是劝说他——你又不会把他扔进火里，”杰姆咆哮道。
　　"How do you know a match don't hurt him?""Turtles can't feel, stupid," said Jem.
“你怎么知道火柴不会伤害到他？”“乌龟没有感觉，笨蛋，”杰姆说。
　　"Were you ever a turtle, huh?""My stars, Dill! Now lemme think… reckon we can rock him…"Jem stood in thought so long that Dill made a mild concession: "Iwon't say you ran out on a dare an' I'll swap you The Gray Ghostif you just go up and touch the house."Jem brightened. "Touch the house, that all?"Dill nodded.
“你以前是乌龟吗？”“我的天哪，迪尔！现在让我想想……看来我们可以摇晃他……”杰姆沉思良久，迪尔勉强让步：“我不会说你逃避挑战，只要你上去摸一下房子，我就和你换个‘灰色幽灵’。”杰姆眼前一亮。“摸房子，就这么简单？”迪尔点点头。
　　"Sure that's all, now? I don't want you hollerin' somethingdifferent the minute I get back.""Yeah, that's all," said Dill. "He'll probably come out after youwhen he sees you in the yard, then Scout'n' me'll jump on him and holdhim down till we can tell him we ain't gonna hurt him."We left the corner, crossed the side street that ran in front of theRadley house, and stopped at the gate.
“现在就这些吗？我一回去，你可不想再喊别的什么。”“是啊，就这些，”迪尔说。“他看到你在院子里，说不定会出来追你，到时候我和斯库特就会扑上去，把他按倒在地，直到我们能告诉他我们不会伤害他为止。”我们离开了街角，穿过拉德利家门前的小街，在门口停了下来。
　　"Well go on," said Dill, "Scout and me's right behind you.""I'm going," said Jem, "don't hurry me."He walked to the corner of the lot, then back again, studying thesimple terrain as if deciding how best to effect an entry, frowningand scratching his head.
“好吧，继续前进，”迪尔说，“斯库特和我就在你后面。”“我走了，”杰姆说，“别催我。”他走到空地的拐角处，然后又走回来，一边皱着眉头挠着头，一边研究着简单的地形，仿佛在决定如何最好地进入。
　　Then I sneered at him.
然后我就对他冷笑。
　　Jem threw open the gate and sped to the side of the house, slappedit with his palm and ran back past us, not waiting to see if his foraywas successful. Dill and I followed on his heels. Safely on our porch,panting and out of breath, we looked back.
杰姆猛地打开大门，飞快地跑到房子旁边，用手掌拍了一下，然后从我们身边跑了过去，没等他看看他的袭击是否成功。迪尔和我紧随其后。我们安全地回到门廊上，气喘吁吁，回头看了一眼。
　　The old house was the same, droopy and sick, but as we stared downthe street we thought we saw an inside shutter move. Flick. A tiny,almost invisible movement, and the house was still.
老房子还是老样子，低垂着，病怏怏的。但我们望向街上，仿佛看到里面的百叶窗动了一下。“啪”的一声。细微的、几乎看不见的动静，房子就静止了。
　　2Dill left us early in September, to return to Meridian. We saw himoff on the five o'clock bus and I was miserable without him until itoccurred to me that I would be starting to school in a week. I neverlooked forward more to anything in my life. Hours of wintertime hadfound me in the treehouse, looking over at the schoolyard, spying onmultitudes of children through a two-power telescope Jem had given me,learning their games, following Jem's red jacket through wrigglingcircles of blind man's buff, secretly sharing their misfortunes andminor victories. I longed to join them.
2迪尔九月初离开我们，返回默里迪恩。我们送他乘五点钟的公共汽车，没有他，我心里很难受，直到我意识到一周后就要上学了。我这辈子从未如此期待过任何事情。冬天的几个小时，我待在树屋里，眺望着校园，用杰姆送给我的双倍望远镜观察着众多孩子，学习他们的游戏，跟着杰姆的红夹克穿过盲人摸象者扭动的圈子，偷偷地分享着他们的不幸和小小的胜利。我渴望加入他们。
　　Jem condescended to take me to school the first day, a job usuallydone by one's parents, but Atticus had said Jem would be delightedto show me where my room was. I think some money changed hands in thistransaction, for as we trotted around the corner past the Radley PlaceI heard an unfamiliar jingle in Jem's pockets. When we slowed to awalk at the edge of the schoolyard, Jem was careful to explain thatduring school hours I was not to bother him, I was not to approach himwith requests to enact a chapter of Tarzan and the Ant Men, toembarrass him with references to his private life, or tag along behindhim at recess and noon. I was to stick with the first grade and hewould stick with the fifth. In short, I was to leave him alone.
第一天，杰姆屈尊送我去学校，这通常是父母的事，但阿蒂克斯说杰姆很乐意告诉我我的房间在哪里。我想这笔交易里肯定涉及一些钱，因为当我们小跑着绕过街角，经过拉德利家时，我听到杰姆口袋里传来一阵陌生的叮当声。当我们在校园边缘放慢脚步时，杰姆小心翼翼地解释说，上课期间我不得打扰他，不得要求他表演《泰山与蚁人》的某一章节，不得提及他的私生活让他难堪，也不得在课间休息和中午跟在他身后。我得跟着一年级，他得跟着五年级。简而言之，我得让他一个人待着。
　　"You mean we can't play any more?" I asked.
“你的意思是我们不能再玩了？”我问。
　　"We'll do like we always do at home," he said, "but you'll see-school's different."It certainly was. Before the first morning was over, Miss CarolineFisher, our teacher, hauled me up to the front of the room andpatted the palm of my hand with a ruler, then made me stand in thecorner until noon.
“我们会像在家一样，”他说，“但你会看到的——学校不一样。”的确如此。第一天上午还没结束，我们的老师卡罗琳·费舍尔小姐就把我拖到教室前面，用尺子拍了拍我的手掌，然后让我站在角落里直到中午。
　　Miss Caroline was no more than twenty-one. She had bright auburnhair, pink cheeks, and wore crimson fingernail polish. She also worehigh-heeled pumps and a red-and-white-striped dress. She looked andsmelled like a peppermint drop. She boarded across the street one doordown from us in Miss Maudie Atkinson's upstairs front room, and whenMiss Maudie introduced us to her, Jem was in a haze for days.
卡罗琳小姐不超过二十一岁。她有着一头亮丽的赤褐色头发，粉嫩的脸颊，涂着深红色的指甲油。她还穿着高跟鞋和红白条纹连衣裙。她看起来和闻起来都像一颗薄荷糖。她寄宿在街对面莫迪·阿特金森小姐楼上的前屋里，离我们只有一户之隔。莫迪小姐把我们介绍给她的时候，杰姆一连好几天都恍惚着。
　　Miss Caroline printed her name on the blackboard and said, "Thissays I am Miss Caroline Fisher. I am from North Alabama, fromWinston County." The class murmured apprehensively, should she proveto harbor her share of the peculiarities indigenous to that region.
卡罗琳小姐在黑板上写下自己的名字，说道：“这上面写着我是卡罗琳·费舍尔小姐。我来自北阿拉巴马州，温斯顿县。”全班同学都有些担心地低声议论，生怕她也带有当地特有的怪癖。
　　（When Alabama seceded from the Union on January 11, 1861, WinstonCounty seceded from Alabama, and every child in Maycomb County knewit.） North Alabama was full of Liquor Interests, Big Mules, steelcompanies, Republicans, professors, and other persons of nobackground.
（当阿拉巴马州于 1861 年 1 月 11 日脱离联邦时，温斯顿县也脱离了阿拉巴马州，梅科姆县的每个孩子都知道这一点。）北阿拉巴马州充满了酒业利益集团、大骡子、钢铁公司、共和党人、教授和其他没有背景的人。
　　Miss Caroline began the day by reading us a story about cats. Thecats had long conversations with one another, they wore cunning littleclothes and lived in a warm house beneath a kitchen stove. By the timeMrs. Cat called the drugstore for an order of chocolate malted micethe class was wriggling like a bucketful of catawba worms. MissCaroline seemed unaware that the ragged, denim-shirted andfloursack-skirted first grade, most of whom had chopped cotton and fedhogs from the time they were able to walk, were immune toimaginative literature. Miss Caroline came to the end of the story andsaid, "Oh, my, wasn't that nice?"Then she went to the blackboard and printed the alphabet in enormoussquare capitals, turned to the class and asked, "Does anybody knowwhat these are?"Everybody did; most of the first grade had failed it last year.
卡罗琳小姐以给我们读一个关于猫的故事开始这一天。猫咪们彼此聊得很开心，它们穿着灵巧的小衣服，住在厨房炉灶下温暖的房子里。等到猫太太打电话到药店订巧克力麦芽老鼠的时候，全班都像一桶卡托巴蠕虫一样蠕动起来。卡罗琳小姐似乎没有意识到，这些衣衫褴褛、穿着牛仔衬衫和面粉袋裙子的一年级学生，大多数人从会走路就开始砍棉花和猪舍，对充满想象力的文学作品毫无抵抗力。卡罗琳小姐读完故事后说道：“哦，我的天，真是太棒了！”然后她走到黑板前，用巨大的方体大写字母写出了字母，转向全班问道：“有人知道这些是什么吗？”每个人都知道；去年一年级的大多数学生都没通过这门考试。
　　I suppose she chose me because she knew my name; as I read thealphabet a faint line appeared between her eyebrows, and aftermaking me read most of My First Reader and the stock-marketquotations from The Mobile Register aloud, she discovered that I wasliterate and looked at me with more than faint distaste. Miss Carolinetold me to tell my father not to teach me any more, it would interferewith my reading.
我想她之所以选择我是因为她知道我的名字；当我念出字母表时，她眉间隐隐浮现出一丝皱纹。在让我大声朗读了《我的第一本读物》的大部分内容和《流动登记册》上的股市行情后，她发现我识字，便用一种略带厌恶的眼神看着我。卡罗琳小姐让我转告父亲别再教我了，那会影响我的阅读。
　　"Teach me?" I said in surprise. "He hasn't taught me anything,Miss Caroline. Atticus ain't got time to teach me anything," Iadded, when Miss Caroline smiled and shook her head. "Why, he's sotired at night he just sits in the livingroom and reads.""If he didn't teach you, who did?" Miss Caroline askedgood-naturedly. "Somebody did. You weren't born reading The MobileRegister.""Jem says I was. He read in a book where I was a Bullfinch insteadof a Finch. Jem says my name's really Jean Louise Bullfinch, that Igot swapped when I was born and I'm really a-"Miss Caroline apparently thought I was lying. "Let's not let ourimaginations run away with us, dear," she said. "Now you tell yourfather not to teach you any more. It's best to begin reading with afresh mind. You tell him I'll take over from here and try to undothe damage-""Ma'am?""Your father does not know how to teach. You can have a seat now."I mumbled that I was sorry and retired meditating upon my crime. Inever deliberately learned to read, but somehow I had been wallowingillicitly in the daily papers. In the long hours of church- was itthen I learned? I could not remember not being able to read hymns. Nowthat I was compelled to think about it, reading was something thatjust came to me, as learning to fasten the seat of my union suitwithout looking around, or achieving two bows from a snarl ofshoelaces. I could not remember when the lines above Atticus'smoving finger separated into words, but I had stared at them all theevenings in my memory, listening to the news of the day, Bills to BeEnacted into Laws, the diaries of Lorenzo Dow- anything Atticushappened to be reading when I crawled into his lap every night.
“教我？”我惊讶地说。“他什么都没教我，卡罗琳小姐。阿蒂克斯没时间教我什么，”我补充道，卡罗琳小姐笑着摇了摇头。“哎，他晚上太累了，就坐在客厅里看书。”“如果不是他教你，那是谁教你的？”卡罗琳小姐和蔼地问道。“有人教你。你不是生来就读《流动登记册》的。”“杰姆说我读过。他在一本书里读到，我的名字是红腹灰雀而不是芬奇。杰姆说我的名字其实是琼·路易丝·红腹灰雀，我出生时被换了名字，我其实是个——”卡罗琳小姐显然以为我在撒谎。“亲爱的，别让我们的想象力飞走，”她说。 “现在你告诉你爸爸别再教你了。最好重新开始读书。你告诉他，我会接手，努力弥补损失——”“夫人？”“你爸爸不会教书。你现在可以坐下了。”我咕哝了一声抱歉，然后开始反思我的罪行。我从来没有刻意学习过读书，但不知何故，我却一直沉迷于日报。在教堂漫长的礼拜时间里——我学会了读书吗？我不记得我读不了赞美诗。现在我不得不回想起来，读书对我来说就像是自然而然地来到我身边，就像学会不用环顾四周就能系好连体泳衣的裤裆，或者用缠结的鞋带系出两个蝴蝶结一样。我不记得阿蒂克斯移动的手指上方的一行行文字何时变成了单词，但在记忆中，我每晚都盯着它们看，听着当天的新闻、即将颁布成为法律的法案、洛伦佐·道的日记——任何阿蒂克斯在我每晚爬到他怀里时正在读的东西。
　　Until I feared I would lose it, I never loved to read. One does notlove breathing.
直到我害怕失去它，我才开始热爱阅读。一个人不会热爱呼吸。
　　I knew I had annoyed Miss Caroline, so I let well enough alone andstared out the window until recess when Jem cut me from the covey offirst-graders in the schoolyard. He asked how I was getting along. Itold him.
我知道我惹恼了卡罗琳小姐，所以我就不去管了，一直盯着窗外，直到课间休息。这时杰姆把我从校园里一年级的人群中拉了出来。他问我过得怎么样。我告诉了他。
　　"If I didn't have to stay I'd leave. Jem, that damn lady saysAtticus's been teaching me to read and for him to stop it-""Don't worry, Scout," Jem comforted me. "Our teacher says MissCaroline's introducing a new way of teaching. She learned about itin college. It'll be in all the grades soon. You don't have to learnmuch out of books that way- it's like if you wanta learn about cows,you go milk one, see?""Yeah Jem, but I don't wanta study cows, I-""Sure you do. You hafta know about cows, they're a big part oflife in Maycomb County."I contented myself with asking Jem if he'd lost his mind.
“要不是非得留下来，我就走了。杰姆，那个该死的女士说阿蒂克斯一直在教我读书，让他别再——”“别担心，斯库特，”杰姆安慰我。“我们老师说卡罗琳小姐正在推广一种新的教学方法。她在大学里学的。很快所有年级都会采用。那样你不用从书本上学到多少东西——就像你想了解奶牛，就去挤牛奶，明白吗？”“是啊，杰姆，但我不想研究奶牛，我——”“你当然想。你得了解奶牛，它们是梅科姆县生活的重要组成部分。”我只好问杰姆是不是疯了。
　　"I'm just trying to tell you the new way they're teachin' thefirst grade, stubborn. It's the Dewey Decimal System."Having never questioned Jem's pronouncements, I saw no reason tobegin now. The Dewey Decimal System consisted, in part, of MissCaroline waving cards at us on which were printed "the," "cat," "rat,""man," and "you." No comment seemed to be expected of us, and theclass received these impressionistic revelations in silence. I wasbored, so I began a letter to Dill. Miss Caroline caught me writingand told me to tell my father to stop teaching me. "Besides," shesaid. "We don't write in the first grade, we print. You won't learn towrite until you're in the third grade."Calpurnia was to blame for this. It kept me from driving her crazyon rainy days, I guess. She would set me a writing task by scrawlingthe alphabet firmly across the top of a tablet, then copying out achapter of the Bible beneath. If I reproduced her penmanshipsatisfactorily, she rewarded me with an open-faced sandwich of breadand butter and sugar. In Calpurnia's teaching, there was nosentimentality: I seldom pleased her and she seldom rewarded me.
“我只是想告诉你他们现在教一年级的新方法，你这个顽固分子。这就是杜威十进制分类法。”我从未质疑过杰姆的言论，所以现在也没必要开始。杜威十进制分类法的一部分内容是卡罗琳小姐向我们挥舞卡片，上面印着“这”、“猫”、“老鼠”、“人”和“你”。我们似乎不用发表任何评论，全班同学默默地接受了这些印象派式的启示。我感到无聊，于是开始给迪尔写信。卡罗琳小姐发现我在写，让我去告诉爸爸别再教我了。“再说，”她说，“一年级不写字，我们用印刷体。你得上三年级才能学写字。”这都要怪卡波妮娅。我想，这让她没在下雨天被我逼疯。她会给我布置一个写作任务，让我在一块写字板上潦草地写上字母，然后在下面抄写圣经的一章。如果我能很好地模仿她的笔迹，她就会奖励我一个开放式三明治，里面有面包、黄油和糖。卡尔普尼亚的教学从不带任何感情色彩：我很少让她高兴，她也很少奖励我。
　　"Everybody who goes home to lunch hold up your hands," said MissCaroline, breaking into my new grudge against Calpurnia.
“回家吃午饭的每个人都举起手来，”卡罗琳小姐说道，打破了我对卡尔普尼亚的新怨恨。
　　The town children did so, and she looked us over.
镇上的孩子们照做了，她也仔细地打量着我们。
　　"Everybody who brings his lunch put it on top of his desk."Molasses buckets appeared from nowhere, and the ceiling dancedwith metallic light. Miss Caroline walked up and down the rows peeringand poking into lunch containers, nodding if the contents pleased her,frowning a little at others. She stopped at Walter Cunningham'sdesk. "Where's yours?" she asked.
“每个带午餐的人都把它放在桌子上。”不知从哪儿冒出几个糖蜜桶，天花板上闪烁着金属般的光芒。卡罗琳小姐在一排排午餐盒里走来走去，仔细地查看着，看看里面的东西，如果满意就点点头，对着其他的午餐盒微微皱眉。她在沃尔特·坎宁安的办公桌前停了下来。“你的呢？”她问道。
　　Walter Cunningham's face told everybody in the first grade he hadhookworms. His absence of shoes told us how he got them. People caughthookworms going barefooted in barnyards and hog wallows. If Walter hadowned any shoes he would have worn them the first day of school andthen discarded them until mid-winter. He did have on a clean shirt andneatly mended overalls.
沃尔特·坎宁安一年级的时候，他的脸就告诉所有人他得了钩虫。他没穿鞋，这让我们知道他是怎么得的钩虫。人们光着脚在谷仓和猪圈里走动就会感染钩虫。如果沃尔特有鞋的话，他开学第一天就会穿上，然后一直脱到隆冬。他确实穿着干净的衬衫和缝补整齐的工装裤。
　　"Did you forget your lunch this morning?" asked Miss Caroline.
“你今天早上忘了吃午餐吗？”卡罗琳小姐问道。
　　Walter looked straight ahead. I saw a muscle jump in his skinny jaw.
沃尔特直视前方。我看到他瘦削的下巴上肌肉在跳动。
　　"Did you forget it this morning?" asked Miss Caroline. Walter'sjaw twitched again.
“你今天早上忘了吗？”卡罗琳小姐问道。沃尔特的下巴又抽搐了一下。
　　"Yeb'm," he finally mumbled. ...
　　Miss Caroline went to her desk and opened her purse. "Here's aquarter," she said to Walter. "Go and eat downtown today. You canpay me back tomorrow."Walter shook his head. "Nome thank you ma'am," he drawled softly.
卡罗琳小姐走到办公桌前，打开钱包。“这是25美分，”她对沃尔特说。“今天去市中心吃饭吧。明天再还钱给我。”沃尔特摇了摇头。“不用了，谢谢您，夫人。”他慢吞吞地说道。
　　Impatience crept into Miss Caroline's voice: "Here Walter, comeget it."Walter shook his head again.
卡罗琳小姐的声音里透着不耐烦：“沃尔特，过来拿吧。”沃尔特再次摇了摇头。
　　When Walter shook his head a third time someone whispered, "Go onand tell her, Scout."I turned around and saw most of the town people and the entire busdelegation looking at me. Miss Caroline and I had conferred twicealready, and they were looking at me in the innocent assurance thatfamiliarity breeds understanding.
沃尔特第三次摇头时，有人低声说道：“去告诉她吧，斯库特。”我转过身，发现镇上大多数人和整个巴士代表团的人都看着我。我和卡罗琳小姐已经商量过两次了，他们看着我，眼神里流露出一种天真无邪的自信，那就是熟悉才会理解。
　　I rose graciously on Walter's behalf: "Ah- Miss Caroline?""What is it, Jean Louise?""Miss Caroline, he's a Cunningham."I sat back down.
我礼貌地代表沃尔特站了起来：“啊——卡罗琳小姐？”“什么事，琼·路易丝？”“卡罗琳小姐，他是坎宁安家的人。”我坐了回去。
　　"What, Jean Louise?"I thought I had made things sufficiently clear. It was clearenough to the rest of us: Walter Cunningham was sitting there lyinghis head off. He didn't forget his lunch, he didn't have any. He hadnone today nor would he have any tomorrow or the next day. He hadprobably never seen three quarters together at the same time in hislife.
“什么，琼·路易丝？”我以为我已经说得够清楚了。我们其他人也都清楚：沃尔特·坎宁安正躺在那里，一动不动。他没忘了午饭，他根本没吃。他今天没吃午饭，明天、后天也不会有。他这辈子大概从来没见过三个季度同时发生。
　　I tried again: "Walter's one of the Cunninghams, Miss Caroline.""I beg your pardon, Jean Louise?""That's okay, ma'am, you'll get to know all the county folks after awhile. The Cunninghams never took anything they can't pay back- nochurch baskets and no scrip stamps. They never took anything off ofanybody, they get along on what they have. They don't have much, butthey get along on it."My special knowledge of the Cunningham tribe- one branch, that is-was gained from events of last winter. Walter's father was one ofAtticus's clients. After a dreary conversation in our livingroom onenight about his entailment, before Mr. Cunningham left he said, "Mr.
我又试了一遍：“沃尔特是坎宁安家的人，卡罗琳小姐。”“请再说一遍，琼·路易丝？”“没关系，夫人，过一段时间你就会认识所有县里的人了。坎宁安家从不拿走任何他们无法偿还的东西——没有教堂的篮子，也没有券券。他们从不向任何人索要任何东西，他们只靠自己拥有的东西过活。他们不多，但他们靠这些过活。”我对坎宁安家族——也就是一个分支——的特殊了解，是从去年冬天发生的一些事情中得来的。沃尔特的父亲是阿蒂克斯的客户之一。一天晚上，我们在客厅里谈完他的限定继承权后，在沉闷的谈话之后，坎宁安先生离开前说：“……
　　Finch, I don't know when I'll ever be able to pay you.""Let that be the least of your worries, Walter," Atticus said.
芬奇，我不知道什么时候才能还清你的钱。”“沃尔特，那就不要再担心了，”阿蒂克斯说。
　　When I asked Jem what entailment was, and Jem described it as acondition of having your tail in a crack, I asked Atticus if Mr.
当我问杰姆什么是限定继承权时，杰姆把它描述为一种尾巴被夹在缝隙中的状态，我问阿提克斯先生是否……
　　Cunningham would ever pay us.
坎宁安永远不会付钱给我们。
　　"Not in money," Atticus said, "but before the year's out I'll havebeen paid. You watch."We watched. One morning Jem and I found a load of stovewood in theback yard. Later, a sack of hickory nuts appeared on the back steps.
“不是钱，”阿蒂克斯说，“不过今年年底之前我肯定会拿到工资的。你看着办吧。”我们看着。一天早上，我和杰姆在后院发现了一堆柴火。后来，后门台阶上又出现了一袋山核桃。
　　With Christmas came a crate of smilax and holly. That spring when wefound a crokersack full of turnip greens, Atticus said Mr.
圣诞节送来了一箱菝葜和冬青。那年春天，我们发现了一个装满芜菁叶的袋子，阿蒂克斯先生说。
　　Cunningham had more than paid him. ...
　　"Why does he pay you like that?" I asked.
“他为什么给你那么多钱？”我问。
　　"Because that's the only way he can pay me. He has no money.""Are we poor, Atticus?"Atticus nodded. "We are indeed."Jem's nose wrinkled. "Are we as poor as the Cunninghams?""Not exactly. The Cunninghams are country folks, farmers, and thecrash hit them hardest."Atticus said professional people were poor because the farmerswere poor. As Maycomb County was farm country, nickels and dimeswere hard to come by for doctors and dentists and lawyers.
“因为那是他唯一能付钱给我的方式。他没钱。”“我们穷吗，阿蒂克斯？”阿蒂克斯点点头。“的确如此。”杰姆皱起了鼻子。“我们和坎宁安家一样穷吗？”“不完全是。坎宁安家是乡下人，农民，这次经济危机对他们打击最大。”阿蒂克斯说，专业人士穷是因为农民穷。梅科姆县是农业区，医生、牙医和律师都很难挣到零花钱。
　　Entailment was only a part of Mr. Cunningham's vexations. The acresnot entailed were mortgaged to the hilt, and the little cash he madewent to interest. If he held his mouth right, Mr. Cunningham could geta WPA job, but his land would go to ruin if he left it, and he waswilling to go hungry to keep his land and vote as he pleased. Mr.
继承权只是坎宁安先生诸多烦恼的一部分。那些没有继承权的土地都被抵押了，他赚到的那点儿钱都用来支付利息了。如果坎宁安先生言行得当，他可以得到一份公共事业振兴署的工作，但如果他放弃，他的土地就会荒废，而他宁愿饿肚子，也要保住自己的土地，随心所欲地投票。
　　Cunningham, said Atticus, came from a set breed of men.
阿提克斯说，坎宁安来自一个固定的家族。
　　As the Cunninghams had no money to pay a lawyer, they simply paid uswith what they had. "Did you know," said Atticus, "that Dr. Reynoldsworks the same way? He charges some folks a bushel of potatoes fordelivery of a baby. Miss Scout, if you give me your attention I'lltell you what entailment is. Jem's definitions are very nearlyaccurate sometimes."If I could have explained these things to Miss Caroline, I wouldhave saved myself some inconvenience and Miss Caroline subsequentmortification, but it was beyond my ability to explain things aswell as Atticus, so I said, "You're shamin' him, Miss Caroline. Walterhasn't got a quarter at home to bring you, and you can't use anystovewood."Miss Caroline stood stock still, then grabbed me by the collar andhauled me back to her desk. "Jean Louise, I've had about enough of youthis morning," she said. "You're starting off on the wrong foot inevery way, my dear. Hold out your hand."I thought she was going to spit in it, which was the only reasonanybody in Maycomb held out his hand: it was a time-honored methodof sealing oral contracts. Wondering what bargain we had made, Iturned to the class for an answer, but the class looked back at mein puzzlement. Miss Caroline picked up her ruler, gave me half a dozenquick little pats, then told me to stand in the corner. A storm oflaughter broke loose when it finally occurred to the class that MissCaroline had whipped me.
坎宁安一家没钱请律师，就用他们所有的钱付给我们。“你知道吗，”阿蒂克斯说，“雷诺兹医生也是这么干的？他给一些人接生一个孩子要一蒲式耳土豆。斯库特小姐，如果你注意听我说，我就告诉你什么是限定继承权。杰姆的定义有时非常准确。”如果我能把这些解释给卡罗琳小姐听，就能省去一些麻烦，也省得卡罗琳小姐事后受辱，但我不像阿蒂克斯那样能解释清楚，所以我说：“卡罗琳小姐，你这是在羞辱他。沃尔特家里没有25美分给你，你又不能用炉子烧柴。”卡罗琳小姐一动不动地站着，然后一把抓住我的衣领，把我拽回她的办公桌前。“琼·路易丝，今天早上我已经受够你了，”她说。 “亲爱的，你真是个彻头彻尾的坏孩子。伸出你的手来。”我以为她要往手上吐口水，梅科姆镇的人伸出手来也不过是这个原因：这是一种历史悠久的口头契约。我琢磨着我们究竟做了什么交易，便转过身去问同学们答案，但同学们却一脸疑惑地看着我。卡罗琳小姐拿起尺子，快速地拍了我五六下，然后让我站在角落里。当全班终于意识到卡罗琳小姐鞭打了我时，爆发出一阵哄堂大笑。
　　When Miss Caroline threatened it with a similar fate the first gradeexploded again, becoming cold sober only when the shadow of MissBlount fell over them. Miss Blount, a native Maycombian as yetuninitiated in the mysteries of the Decimal System, appeared at thedoor hands on hips and announced: "If I hear another sound from thisroom I'll burn up everybody in it. Miss Caroline, the sixth gradecannot concentrate on the pyramids for all this racket!"My sojourn in the corner was a short one. Saved by the bell, MissCaroline watched the class file out for lunch. As I was the last toleave, I saw her sink down into her chair and bury her head in herarms. Had her conduct been more friendly toward me, I would havefelt sorry for her. She was a pretty little thing.
当卡罗琳小姐以同样的命运威胁一年级时，一年级又爆发了，直到布朗特小姐的影子落在他们身上，他们才冷静下来。布朗特小姐是梅科姆人，对十进制的奥秘一无所知。她双手叉腰出现在门口，大声宣布：“如果我再听到这房间里有声音，我就把里面的人都烧死。卡罗琳小姐，六年级的学生没法专心看金字塔，这么吵闹！”我在角落里待的时间不长。铃声响了，卡罗琳小姐看着全班同学鱼贯出去吃午饭。我是最后一个离开的，我看到她瘫倒在椅子上，把头埋在胳膊里。如果她对我再友善一点，我真会同情她。她真是个漂亮的小姑娘。
　　3Catching Walter Cunningham in the schoolyard gave me somepleasure, but when I was rubbing his nose in the dirt Jem came byand told me to stop. "You're bigger'n he is," he said.
3在校园里抓沃尔特·坎宁安让我有点高兴，可当我正把他的鼻子往泥里蹭的时候，杰姆走过来叫我停下来。“你比他个子大，”他说。
　　"He's as old as you, nearly," I said. "He made me start off on thewrong foot.""Let him go, Scout. Why?""He didn't have any lunch," I said, and explained my involvementin Walter's dietary affairs.
“他差不多和你一样大，”我说，“他让我一开始就犯了个大错。”“让他走吧，斯库特。为什么？”“他没吃午饭，”我说，并解释了我为什么参与沃尔特的饮食事务。
　　Walter had picked himself up and was standing quietly listening toJem and me. His fists were half cocked, as if expecting an onslaughtfrom both of us. I stomped at him to chase him away, but Jem put outhis hand and stopped me. He examined Walter with an air ofspeculation. "Your daddy Mr. Walter Cunningham from Old Sarum?" heasked, and Walter nodded.
沃尔特站了起来，静静地站着，听着杰姆和我说话。他拳头半攥着，仿佛在等着我们俩的猛攻。我跺着脚想把他赶走，但杰姆伸出手拦住了我。他带着一种若有所思的神情打量着沃尔特。“你爸爸是老塞勒姆的沃尔特·坎宁安先生吗？”他问道，沃尔特点了点头。
　　Walter looked as if he had been raised on fish food: his eyes, asblue as Dill Harris's, were red-rimmed and watery. There was nocolor in his face except at the tip of his nose, which was moistlypink. He fingered the straps of his overalls, nervously picking at themetal hooks.
沃尔特看起来像是吃鱼长大的：他的眼睛和迪尔·哈里斯的一样蓝，眼圈红红的，水汪汪的。除了鼻尖湿润的粉红色，他的脸上没有任何血色。他用手指拨弄着工作服的带子，紧张地拨弄着金属钩子。
　　Jem suddenly grinned at him. "Come on home to dinner with us,Walter," he said. "We'd be glad to have you."Walter's face brightened, then darkened.
杰姆突然对他咧嘴一笑。“沃尔特，回家和我们一起吃饭吧，”他说，“我们很高兴你来。”沃尔特的脸色先是明亮了起来，然后又阴沉了下来。
　　Jem said, "Our daddy's a friend of your daddy's. Scout here, she'scrazy- she won't fight you any more.""I wouldn't be too certain of that," I said. Jem's free dispensationof my pledge irked me, but precious noontime minutes were tickingaway. "Yeah Walter, I won't jump on you again. Don't you likebutterbeans? Our Cal's a real good cook."Walter stood where he was, biting his lip. Jem and I gave up, and wewere nearly to the Radley Place when Walter called, "Hey, I'm comin'!"When Walter caught up with us, Jem made pleasant conversation withhim. "A hain't lives there," he said cordially, pointing to the Radleyhouse. "Ever hear about him, Walter?""Reckon I have," said Walter. "Almost died first year I come toschool and et them pecans- folks say he pizened 'em and put 'em overon the school side of the fence."Jem seemed to have little fear of Boo Radley now that Walter and Iwalked beside him. Indeed, Jem grew boastful: "I went all the way upto the house once," he said to Walter.
杰姆说：“我们爸爸是你爸爸的朋友。我是斯库特，她疯了——她不会再跟你打架了。”“我不太确定，”我说。杰姆免费兑现我的承诺让我很恼火，但宝贵的午间时光正在一分一秒地流逝。“是啊，沃尔特，我不会再对你动手动脚了。你不喜欢奶油豆吗？我们家卡尔厨艺真不错。”沃尔特站在原地，咬着嘴唇。杰姆和我放弃了，快到拉德利家的时候，沃尔特喊道：“嘿，我来了！”沃尔特追上我们时，杰姆和他愉快地攀谈起来。“那里住着一个人，”他热情地指着拉德利家说。“听说过他吗，沃尔特？”“我想听说过，”沃尔特说。 “我第一年上学吃山核桃的时候差点儿死掉——人们说他把山核桃弄坏了，然后把它们放在学校篱笆那边。”现在沃尔特和我走在他身边，杰姆似乎不再怕布·拉德利了。事实上，杰姆变得自吹自擂起来：“我曾经一路走到那栋房子那儿，”他对沃尔特说。
　　"Anybody who went up to the house once oughta not to still run everytime he passes it," I said to the clouds above.
“任何人只要去过那所房子，就不应该每次经过它时都继续跑，”我对着天上的云说道。
　　"And who's runnin', Miss Priss?""You are, when ain't anybody with you."By the time we reached our front steps Walter had forgotten he was aCunningham. Jem ran to the kitchen and asked Calpurnia to set an extraplate, we had company. Atticus greeted Walter and began a discussionabout crops neither Jem nor I could follow.
“谁在跑，普里斯小姐？”“你跑，没人跟着你。”等我们走到门前台阶时，沃尔特已经忘了自己是坎宁安家的人了。杰姆跑到厨房，让卡尔珀尼亚多准备一个盘子，我们有客人了。阿蒂克斯和沃尔特打了招呼，开始讨论庄稼的事，杰姆和我都听不懂。
　　"Reason I can't pass the first grade, Mr. Finch, is I've had to stayout ever' spring an' help Papa with the choppin', but there'sanother'n at the house now that's field size.""Did you pay a bushel of potatoes for him?" I asked, but Atticusshook his head at me.
“芬奇先生，我之所以没能通过一年级，是因为我不得不每个春天都待在外面帮爸爸砍树，但现在家里又多了一个人，而且他的树已经长到田地那么大了。”“你给他付了一蒲式耳土豆钱吗？”我问道，但阿蒂克斯对我摇了摇头。
　　While Walter piled food on his plate, he and Atticus talked togetherlike two men, to the wonderment of Jem and me. Atticus wasexpounding upon farm problems when Walter interrupted to ask ifthere was any molasses in the house. Atticus summoned Calpurnia, whoreturned bearing the syrup pitcher. She stood waiting for Walter tohelp himself. Walter poured syrup on his vegetables and meat with agenerous hand. He would probably have poured it into his milk glasshad I not asked what the sam hill he was doing.
沃尔特往盘子里堆食物的时候，他和阿蒂克斯像两个男人一样聊天，这让杰姆和我都感到惊奇。阿蒂克斯正在滔滔不绝地讲述农场里的问题，沃尔特打断了他，问家里有没有糖蜜。阿蒂克斯叫来了卡波妮娅，她端着糖浆罐回来了。她站在那里等着沃尔特自己取。沃尔特慷慨地把糖浆倒在蔬菜和肉上。要不是我问他到底在干什么，他大概会把糖浆倒进牛奶杯里。
　　The silver saucer clattered when he replaced the pitcher, and hequickly put his hands in his lap. Then he ducked his head.
他把水罐放回原处时，银碟发出叮当声，他迅速将双手放在腿上，然后低下头。
　　Atticus shook his head at me again. "But he's gone and drowned hisdinner in syrup," I protested. "He's poured it all over-"It was then that Calpurnia requested my presence in the kitchen.
阿蒂克斯又对我摇了摇头。“可是他把晚饭都浇在糖浆里了，”我抗议道。“他把糖浆都浇到——”就在那时，卡尔普尼亚要求我去厨房。
　　She was furious, and when she was furious Calpurnia's grammar becameerratic. When in tranquility, her grammar was as good as anybody'sin Maycomb. Atticus said Calpurnia had more education than mostcolored folks.
她怒火中烧，怒火中烧的时候，卡尔普尼亚的语法就乱七八糟。平静的时候，她的语法跟梅科姆镇的任何人都一样好。阿蒂克斯说卡尔普尼亚比大多数黑人受的教育程度都高。
　　When she squinted down at me the tiny lines around her eyesdeepened. "There's some folks who don't eat like us," she whisperedfiercely, "but you ain't called on to contradict 'em at the table whenthey don't. That boy's yo' comp'ny and if he wants to eat up the tablecloth you let him, you hear?""He ain't company, Cal, he's just a Cunningham-""Hush your mouth! Don't matter who they are, anybody sets foot inthis house's yo' comp'ny, and don't you let me catch you remarkin'
她眯起眼睛看着我，眼角的细纹更深了。“有些人吃得和我们不一样，”她厉声说道，“但当他们不吃的时候，你没必要在餐桌上反驳他们。那孩子是你的朋友，如果他想把桌布吃光，你就让他吃，听见了吗？”“他不是朋友，卡尔，他只是个坎宁安——”“闭嘴！不管他们是谁，任何人踏进这房子都是你的朋友，别让我听到你这么说。”
　　on their ways like you was so high and mighty! Yo' folks might bebetter'n the Cunninghams but it don't count for nothin' the way you'redisgracin' 'em- if you can't act fit to eat at the table you canjust set here and eat in the kitchen!"Calpurnia sent me through the swinging door to the diningroom with astinging smack. I retrieved my plate and finished dinner in thekitchen, thankful, though, that I was spared the humiliation of facingthem again. I told Calpurnia to just wait, I'd fix her: one of thesedays when she wasn't looking I'd go off and drown myself in Barker'sEddy and then she'd be sorry. Besides, I added, she'd already gottenme in trouble once today: she had taught me to write and it was allher fault. "Hush your fussin'," she said.
像你这样趾高气扬，自以为是！你们家也许比坎宁安家强，但你这样羞辱他们，就算了——要是连在餐桌上吃饭都装不下，就坐在这儿，去厨房吃吧！“卡尔珀尼亚狠狠地咂了我一口，把我从旋转门送进了餐厅。我拿回盘子，在厨房里吃完了晚饭，不过还是庆幸自己不用再受他们的羞辱。我告诉卡尔珀尼亚等等，我会好好教训她：哪天她不注意，我就跑到巴克漩涡里淹死自己，然后她就会后悔的。再说，我又说，她今天已经给我惹过一次麻烦了：她教我写字，这都是她的错。“别再胡闹了，”她说。
　　Jem and Walter returned to school ahead of me: staying behind toadvise Atticus of Calpurnia's iniquities was worth a solitary sprintpast the Radley Place. "She likes Jem better'n she likes me,anyway," I concluded, and suggested that Atticus lose no time inpacking her off.
杰姆和沃尔特比我先回学校：留下来告诉阿蒂克斯卡尔珀尼亚的罪孽，值得我独自跑过拉德利家。“反正她喜欢杰姆胜过喜欢我，”我总结道，并建议阿蒂克斯赶紧把她打发走。
　　"Have you ever considered that Jem doesn't worry her half asmuch?" Atticus's voice was flinty. "I've no intention of getting ridof her, now or ever. We couldn't operate a single day without Cal,have you ever thought of that? You think about how much Cal does foryou, and you mind her, you hear?"I returned to school and hated Calpurnia steadily until a suddenshriek shattered my resentments. I looked up to see Miss Carolinestanding in the middle of the room, sheer horror flooding her face.
“你有没有想过，杰姆根本没让她担心多少？”阿蒂克斯语气冷峻。“我现在和将来都不会摆脱她。没有卡尔，我们一天都无法运转，你有没有想过这一点？想想卡尔为你做了多少，你得管好她，听见了吗？”我回到学校，心里一直恨着卡尔普尼亚，直到一声突如其来的尖叫打破了我的怨恨。我抬头看到卡罗琳小姐站在教室中央，脸上写满了惊恐。
　　Apparently she had revived enough to persevere in her profession.
显然，她已经恢复了足够的精神，可以继续从事自己的职业。
　　"It's alive!" she screamed.
“它还活着！”她尖叫道。
　　The male population of the class rushed as one to her assistance.
班上的男生们齐声冲上前来帮助她。
　　Lord, I thought, she's scared of a mouse. Little Chuck Little, whosepatience with all living things was phenomenal, said, "Which way didhe go, Miss Caroline? Tell us where he went, quick! D.C.-" he turnedto a boy behind him- "D.C., shut the door and we'll catch him.
天哪，我心想，她连老鼠都怕。小查克·利特尔对所有生物都拥有非凡的耐心，说道：“他往哪儿跑了，卡罗琳小姐？快告诉我们他去哪儿了！DC——”他转向身后的一个男孩——“DC，关上门，我们去抓住他。”
　　Quick, ma'am, where'd he go?"Miss Caroline pointed a shaking finger not at the floor nor at adesk, but to a hulking individual unknown to me. Little Chuck's facecontracted and he said gently, "You mean him, ma'am? Yessum, he'salive. Did he scare you some way?"Miss Caroline said desperately, "I was just walking by when itcrawled out of his hair… just crawled out of his hair-"Little Chuck grinned broadly. "There ain't no need to fear a cootie,ma'am. Ain't you ever seen one? Now don't you be afraid, you just goback to your desk and teach us some more."Little Chuck Little was another member of the population whodidn't know where his next meal was coming from, but he was a borngentleman. He put his hand under her elbow and led Miss Caroline tothe front of the room. "Now don't you fret, ma'am," he said. "Thereain't no need to fear a cootie. I'll just fetch you some cool water."The cootie's host showed not the faintest interest in the furor hehad wrought. He searched the scalp above his forehead, located hisguest and pinched it between his thumb and forefinger.
“快说，夫人，他去哪儿了？”卡罗琳小姐颤抖的手指既没有指地板，也没有指桌子，而是指向一个我素不相识的魁梧身影。小查克的脸色一紧，轻声说道：“夫人，您说的是他？是的，他还活着。他吓到你了吗？”卡罗琳小姐绝望地问道：“我正路过，它从他头发里爬出来了……从他头发里爬出来了——”小查克咧嘴一笑。“夫人，没必要害怕虱子。您没见过虱子吗？”现在别害怕，回到你的座位上，再教我们点东西就行了。”小查克·利特尔也是个不知下一顿饭从哪儿来的家伙，但他天生是个绅士。他把手放在卡罗琳小姐的胳膊肘下，领着她走到房间前面。“夫人，别担心，”他说。“不用怕虱子。我去给你拿点凉水。”虱子的主人对他引起的骚动丝毫没有兴趣。他摸索着额头上方的头皮，找到他的客人，用拇指和食指捏了捏。
　　Miss Caroline watched the process in horrid fascination. LittleChuck brought water in a paper cup, and she drank it gratefully.
卡罗琳小姐惊恐地看着这一切。小查克用纸杯端来水，她感激地喝了下去。
　　Finally she found her voice. "What is your name, son?" she askedsoftly.
她终于开口说话了。“儿子，你叫什么名字？”她轻声问道。
　　The boy blinked. "Who, me?" Miss Caroline nodded. ...
　　"Burris Ewell."Miss Caroline inspected her roll-book. "I have a Ewell here, but Idon't have a first name… would you spell your first name for me?""Don't know how. They call me Burris't home.""Well, Burris," said Miss Caroline, "I think we'd better excuseyou for the rest of the afternoon. I want you to go home and wash yourhair."From her desk she produced a thick volume, leafed through itspages and read for a moment. "A good home remedy for- Burris, I wantyou to go home and wash your hair with lye soap. When you've donethat, treat your scalp with kerosene.""What fer, missus?""To get rid of the- er, cooties. You see, Burris, the other childrenmight catch them, and you wouldn't want that, would you?"The boy stood up. He was the filthiest human I had ever seen. Hisneck was dark gray, the backs of his hands were rusty, and hisfingernails were black deep into the quick. He peered at Miss Carolinefrom a fist-sized clean space on his face. No one had noticed him,probably, because Miss Caroline and I had entertained the class mostof the morning.
“伯里斯·尤厄尔。”卡罗琳小姐翻看着她的名册。“我这儿有个尤厄尔，但我没有名字……你能把你的名字拼给我听吗？”“不知道怎么拼。他们叫我伯里斯。”“好吧，伯里斯，”卡罗琳小姐说，“我想你下午剩下的时间就别来了。你回家洗洗头吧。”她从书桌里拿出一本厚厚的书，翻阅了一会儿。“有个治——伯里斯的好方法，你回家用碱液肥皂洗头。洗完头后，再用煤油擦洗头皮。”“什么事，太太？”“为了除掉——虱子。你看，伯里斯，别的孩子可能会染上虱子，你肯定不想染，对吧？”男孩站了起来。他是我见过的最脏的人。他的脖子呈深灰色，手背锈迹斑斑，指甲根根处都黑得发黑。他脸上只留出拳头大小的空隙，凝视着卡罗琳小姐。大概是因为卡罗琳小姐和我上午大部分时间都在逗全班同学开心，所以没人注意到他。
　　"And Burris," said Miss Caroline, "please bathe yourself beforeyou come back tomorrow."The boy laughed rudely. "You ain't sendin' me home, missus. I was onthe verge of leavin'- I done done my time for this year."Miss Caroline looked puzzled. "What do you mean by that?"The boy did not answer. He gave a short contemptuous snort.
“还有伯里斯，”卡罗琳小姐说，“明天回来之前，请先洗个澡。”男孩粗鲁地笑了笑。“小姐，你不会送我回家的。我正准备离开呢——今年的刑期已经满了。”卡罗琳小姐一脸疑惑。“你这是什么意思？”男孩没有回答。他轻蔑地哼了一声。
　　One of the elderly members of the class answered her: "He's one ofthe Ewells, ma'am," and I wondered if this explanation would be asunsuccessful as my attempt. But Miss Caroline seemed willing tolisten. "Whole school's full of 'em. They come first day every yearand then leave. The truant lady gets 'em here 'cause she threatens 'emwith the sheriff, but she's give up tryin' to hold 'em. She reckonsshe's carried out the law just gettin' their names on the roll andrunnin' 'em here the first day. You're supposed to mark 'em absent therest of the year…""But what about their parents?" asked Miss Caroline, in genuineconcern.
班上一位年纪较大的同学回答她：“他是尤厄尔家的人，夫人。”我心想，这解释会不会和我之前解释的一样不靠谱。但卡罗琳小姐似乎愿意听。“全校都是这样的学生。他们每年第一天来，然后就走了。那个逃学的女士把他们带到这里，因为她拿警长来威胁他们，但她已经放弃了留住他们。她觉得只要把他们的名字登记在册，第一天就把他们带到这里，就已经是执法了。你们应该把他们今年剩下的时间都记作缺席……”“可是他们的父母怎么办？”卡罗琳小姐真诚地关切地问道。
　　"Ain't got no mother," was the answer, "and their paw's rightcontentious."Burris Ewell was flattered by the recital. "Been comin' to the firstday o' the first grade fer three year now," he said expansively.
“没妈妈，”对方回答，“而且他们的爪子总是争吵不休。”伯里斯·尤厄尔听了这番话，心里很受用。“我已经上一年级第一天三年了，”他得意洋洋地说。
　　"Reckon if I'm smart this year they'll promote me to the second…"Miss Caroline said, "Sit back down, please, Burris," and themoment she said it I knew she had made a serious mistake. The boy'scondescension flashed to anger.
“如果我今年表现好的话，他们估计会提拔我到二年级……”卡罗琳小姐说，“伯里斯，请坐下。”她话音刚落，我就意识到她犯了一个严重的错误。男孩的傲慢神情瞬间变成了愤怒。
　　"You try and make me, missus."Little Chuck Little got to his feet. "Let him go, ma'am," he said.
“你想让我走吗，夫人。”小查克·利特尔站了起来。“放了他吧，夫人，”他说。
　　"He's a mean one, a hard-down mean one. He's liable to startsomethin', and there's some little folks here."He was among the most diminutive of men, but when Burris Ewellturned toward him, Little Chuck's right hand went to his pocket.
“他是个卑鄙小人，一个铁石心肠的卑鄙小人。他很容易挑起事端，而这里还有一些小人物。”他身材矮小，但当伯里斯·尤厄尔转过身来时，小查克的右手却伸进了口袋。
　　"Watch your step, Burris," he said. "I'd soon's kill you as look atyou. Now go home."Burris seemed to be afraid of a child half his height, and MissCaroline took advantage of his indecision: "Burris, go home. If youdon't I'll call the principal," she said. "I'll have to report this,anyway."The boy snorted and slouched leisurely to the door.
“伯里斯，小心点，”他说。“我一看你这副样子，真想杀了你。现在回家吧。”伯里斯似乎害怕一个只有他一半高的孩子，卡罗琳小姐趁他犹豫不决之际说道：“伯里斯，回家吧。要是你不回家，我就打电话给校长了，”她说。“反正我也得报告这件事。”男孩哼了一声，懒洋洋地朝门口走去。
　　Safely out of range, he turned and shouted: "Report and be damned toye! Ain't no snot-nosed slut of a schoolteacher ever born c'n makeme do nothin'! You ain't makin' me go nowhere, missus. You justremember that, you ain't makin' me go nowhere!"He waited until he was sure she was crying, then he shuffled outof the building.
等他安全离开攻击范围后，他转身大喊：“快去报到，见鬼去吧！哪个讨厌的学校老师能让我什么都不做！你别逼我，太太。你记住，你别逼我！”等他确定她哭了，这才拖着脚步走出了大楼。
　　Soon we were clustered around her desk, trying in our various waysto comfort her. He was a real mean one… below the belt… youain't called on to teach folks like that… them ain't Maycomb's ways,Miss Caroline, not really… now don't you fret, ma'am. Miss Caroline,why don't you read us a story? That cat thing was real fine thismornin'…Miss Caroline smiled, blew her nose, said, "Thank you, darlings,"dispersed us, opened a book and mystified the first grade with along narrative about a toadfrog that lived in a hall.
很快，我们就围在她的桌子旁，用各种方式安慰她。他真是个恶毒的人……卑鄙无耻……你没必要教这种人……这可不是梅科姆的作风，卡罗琳小姐，真的……好了，别担心，夫人。卡罗琳小姐，你为什么不给我们读个故事呢？今天早上那只猫的故事讲得真好……卡罗琳小姐笑了笑，擤了擤鼻子，说：“谢谢，亲爱的们。”然后我们散开，打开一本书，用一个关于一只住在走廊里的蟾蜍的故事，把一年级的学生们都迷住了。
　　When I passed the Radley Place for the fourth time that day- twiceat a full gallop- my gloom had deepened to match the house. If theremainder of the school year were as fraught with drama as the firstday, perhaps it would be mildly entertaining, but the prospect ofspending nine months refraining from reading and writing made me thinkof running away.
那天我第四次经过拉德利家时——两次都是飞奔——我的忧郁感与房子的色调一样深沉。如果这学年剩下的时间也像开学第一天一样充满戏剧性，或许还能稍微有趣一点，但想到接下来九个月不能读书写字，我就想着离家出走。
　　By late afternoon most of my traveling plans were complete; when Jemand I raced each other up the sidewalk to meet Atticus coming homefrom work, I didn't give him much of a race. It was our habit to runmeet Atticus the moment we saw him round the post office corner in thedistance. Atticus seemed to have forgotten my noontime fall fromgrace; he was full of questions about school. My replies weremonosyllabic and he did not press me.
傍晚时分，我的大部分旅行计划都完成了；当我和杰姆赛跑着在人行道上迎接下班回家的阿蒂克斯时，我并没有跟他赛跑太久。我们习惯一看到阿蒂克斯在远处邮局的拐角处，就跑过去迎接他。阿蒂克斯似乎已经忘记了我中午的失宠；他满脑子都是关于学校的问题。我的回答都很简短，他也没有催我。
　　Perhaps Calpurnia sensed that my day had been a grim one: she let mewatch her fix supper. "Shut your eyes and open your mouth and I'llgive you a surprise," she said.
卡尔普尼亚或许察觉到我今天心情不好：她让我看着她准备晚饭。“闭上眼睛，张开嘴，我给你一个惊喜。”她说。
　　It was not often that she made crackling bread, she said she neverhad time, but with both of us at school today had been an easy one forher. She knew I loved crackling bread.
她不常做脆皮面包，她说她从来没时间，但今天我们俩在学校，对她来说很轻松。她知道我喜欢脆皮面包。
　　"I missed you today," she said. "The house got so lonesome 'longabout two o'clock I had to turn on the radio.""Why? Jem'n me ain't ever in the house unless it's rainin'.""I know," she said, "But one of you's always in callin' distance.
“我今天很想你，”她说。“两点钟左右的时候，家里一直很冷清，我不得不打开收音机。”“怎么了？除非下雨，我和杰姆从来不在家。”“我知道，”她说，“但你们总有一个人能联系上。”
　　I wonder how much of the day I spend just callin' after you. Well,"she said, getting up from the kitchen chair, "it's enough time to makea pan of cracklin' bread, I reckon. You run along now and let me getsupper on the table."Calpurnia bent down and kissed me. I ran along, wondering what hadcome over her. She had wanted to make up with me, that was it. She hadalways been too hard on me, she had at last seen the error of herfractious ways, she was sorry and too stubborn to say so. I wasweary from the day's crimes.
我不知道我一天中有多少时间只是在呼唤你。“嗯，”她从厨房椅子上站起来说，“我想，这时间足够做一锅脆皮面包了。你现在走吧，让我把晚饭端上桌。”卡尔珀尼亚弯下腰吻了我一下。我跑了过去，心想她到底怎么了。她想和我和好，仅此而已。她一直对我太严厉了，终于意识到自己任性的错误，她感到很抱歉，而且太固执了，不敢开口。我被今天的罪孽折磨得筋疲力尽。
　　After supper, Atticus sat down with the paper and called, "Scout,ready to read?" The Lord sent me more than I could bear, and I went tothe front porch. Atticus followed me.
晚饭后，阿蒂克斯拿着报纸坐下来，喊道：“斯库特，准备好读了吗？”上帝给了我难以承受的惩罚，我走到前廊。阿蒂克斯跟在我身后。
　　"Something wrong, Scout?"I told Atticus I didn't feel very well and didn't think I'd go toschool any more if it was all right with him.
“有什么问题吗，斯库特？”我告诉阿蒂克斯我感觉不太舒服，如果他同意的话，我想我不会再去上学了。
　　Atticus sat down in the swing and crossed his legs. His fingerswandered to his watchpocket; he said that was the only way he couldthink. He waited in amiable silence, and I sought to reinforce myposition: "You never went to school and you do all right, so I'll juststay home too. You can teach me like Granddaddy taught you 'n' UncleJack.""No I can't," said Atticus. "I have to make a living. Besides,they'd put me in jail if I kept you at home- dose of magnesia foryou tonight and school tomorrow.""I'm feeling all right, really.""Thought so. Now what's the matter?"Bit by bit, I told him the day's misfortunes. "-and she said youtaught me all wrong, so we can't ever read any more, ever. Pleasedon't send me back, please sir."Atticus stood up and walked to the end of the porch. When hecompleted his examination of the wisteria vine he strolled back to me.
阿蒂克斯坐在秋千上，翘着二郎腿。他的手指摸索着表袋；他说他只能这么想。他和蔼地默默地等着，我试图强调我的立场：“你没上过学，而且你学得还不错，所以我也待在家里吧。你可以像爷爷教你和杰克叔叔那样教我。”“不行，”阿蒂克斯说。“我得养家糊口。再说，如果我把你留在家里，他们会把我关进监狱的——今晚给你一剂镁剂，明天再去上学。”“我感觉还好，真的。”“我想是的。现在怎么了？”我一点一点地把今天的不幸告诉了他。“——她说你教我的都错了，所以我们永远都不能再读书了，永远都不能。请不要送我回去，先生。”阿蒂克斯站起身，走到门廊的尽头。当他检查完紫藤后，便漫步走回我身边。
　　"First of all," he said, "if you can learn a simple trick, Scout,you'll get along a lot better with all kinds of folks. You neverreally understand a person until you consider things from his point ofview-""Sir?""-until you climb into his skin and walk around in it."Atticus said I had learned many things today, and Miss Carolinehad learned several things herself. She had learned not to handsomething to a Cunningham, for one thing, but if Walter and I hadput ourselves in her shoes we'd have seen it was an honest mistakeon her part. We could not expect her to learn all Maycomb's ways inone day, and we could not hold her responsible when she knew nobetter.
“首先，”他说，“斯库特，如果你能学会一个简单的技巧，你就能更好地与各种各样的人相处。你永远无法真正了解一个人，除非你从他的角度考虑问题——“先生？”——除非你设身处地为他着想，用他的角度去思考问题。”阿蒂克斯说我今天学到了很多东西，卡罗琳小姐自己也学到了一些东西。首先，她学会了不要对坎宁安家的人太客气，但如果沃尔特和我设身处地为她着想，我们就会明白，这只是她的一个无心之失。我们不能指望她一天之内就学会梅科姆镇的所有规矩，而且她自己也不懂规矩，我们也不能责怪她。
　　"I'll be dogged," I said. "I didn't know no better than not toread to her, and she held me responsible- listen Atticus, I don't haveto go to school!" I was bursting with a sudden thought. "Burris Ewell,remember? He just goes to school the first day. The truant ladyreckons she's carried out the law when she gets his name on the roll-""You can't do that, Scout," Atticus said. "Sometimes it's betterto bend the law a little in special cases. In your case, the lawremains rigid. So to school you must go.""I don't see why I have to when he doesn't.""Then listen."Atticus said the Ewells had been the disgrace of Maycomb for threegenerations. None of them had done an honest day's work in hisrecollection. He said that some Christmas, when he was getting ridof the tree, he would take me with him and show me where and howthey lived. They were people, but they lived like animals. "They cango to school any time they want to, when they show the faintestsymptom of wanting an education," said Atticus. "There are ways ofkeeping them in school by force, but it's silly to force people likethe Ewells into a new environment-""If I didn't go to school tomorrow, you'd force me to.""Let us leave it at this," said Atticus dryly. "You, Miss ScoutFinch, are of the common folk. You must obey the law." He said thatthe Ewells were members of an exclusive society made up of Ewells.
“我会坚持到底的，”我说。“我当时就不知道不该给她读书，她还怪我——听着，阿蒂克斯，我不用去上学！”我突然冒出一个念头。“伯里斯·尤厄尔，记得吗？他第一天就去上学。那个逃学的女士认为，只要他的名字上了名册，她就算是遵守了法律——”“你不能这么做，斯库特，”阿蒂克斯说。“有时候，在特殊情况下，稍微变通一下法律会更好。就你的情况而言，法律依然僵化。所以你必须去上学。”“我不明白为什么他不用去，我却要去。”“那你就听我说。”阿蒂克斯说尤厄尔家族是梅科姆三代人的耻辱。在他的记忆里，他们没有一个人做过一天正经的活儿。他说，哪年圣诞节，他要把圣诞树弄掉的时候，要带我一起去，让我看看他们住在哪里，过着怎样的生活。他们是人，却活得像牲畜。“他们想上学，只要稍微流露出一点想要接受教育的迹象，随时都可以去，”阿蒂克斯说。“强迫他们留在学校是有办法的，但强迫像尤厄尔一家这样的人去一个新环境，真是愚蠢——”“如果我明天不去上学，你们就会强迫我去。”“就到此为止吧，”阿蒂克斯冷冷地说。“斯库特·芬奇小姐，你是平民百姓。你必须遵守法律。”他说尤厄尔一家是尤厄尔家族成员组成的一个排他性社会的成员。
　　In certain circumstances the common folk judiciously allowed themcertain privileges by the simple method of becoming blind to some ofthe Ewells' activities. They didn't have to go to school, for onething. Another thing, Mr. Bob Ewell, Burris's father, was permitted tohunt and trap out of season.
在某些情况下，普通民众明智地给予他们某些特权，只需对他们的一些活动视而不见即可。首先，他们不用上学。其次，伯里斯的父亲鲍勃·尤厄尔先生被允许在非狩猎季节狩猎。
　　"Atticus, that's bad," I said. In Maycomb County, hunting out ofseason was a misdemeanor at law, a capital felony in the eyes of thepopulace.
“阿蒂克斯，这太糟糕了，”我说。在梅科姆县，非狩猎季节狩猎在法律上是轻罪，在民众眼中更是死罪。
　　"It's against the law, all right," said my father, "and it'scertainly bad, but when a man spends his relief checks on greenwhiskey his children have a way of crying from hunger pains. I don'tknow of any landowner around here who begrudges those children anygame their father can hit.""Mr. Ewell shouldn't do that-""Of course he shouldn't, but he'll never change his ways. Are yougoing to take out your disapproval on his children?""No sir," I murmured, and made a final stand: "But if I keep ongoin' to school, we can't ever read any more…""That's really bothering you, isn't it?""Yes sir."When Atticus looked down at me I saw the expression on his face thatalways made me expect something. "Do you know what a compromise is?"he asked.
“这确实违法，”父亲说，“而且确实很糟糕，但当一个人把救济金花在买绿威士忌上时，他的孩子们肯定会饿得哭哭啼啼的。我这附近没见过哪个地主会嫉妒那些孩子，因为他们的父亲能打任何比赛。”“尤厄尔先生不应该那样做——”“他当然不应该，但他永远改不了脾气。你要把你的不满发泄在他孩子身上吗？”“不，先生，”我低声说，最后还是坚持道：“但如果我继续上学，我们就再也读不了书了……”“这真的让你很烦，不是吗？”“是的，先生。”阿蒂克斯低头看着我时，我看到了他脸上那种总是让我有所期待的表情。“你知道什么是妥协吗？”他问道。
　　"Bending the law?""No, an agreement reached by mutual concessions. It works this way,"he said. "If you'll concede the necessity of going to school, we'll goon reading every night just as we always have. Is it a bargain?""Yes sir!""We'll consider it sealed without the usual formality," Atticussaid, when he saw me preparing to spit.
“违反法律？”“不，双方互相让步达成的协议。是这样运作的，”他说。“如果你承认上学的必要性，我们就会像往常一样每天晚上看书。这算不算交易？”“是的，先生！”“我们认为这已经敲定，无需任何手续，”阿蒂克斯看到我正准备吐口水，说道。
　　As I opened the front screen door Atticus said, "By the way,Scout, you'd better not say anything at school about our agreement.""Why not?""I'm afraid our activities would be received with considerabledisapprobation by the more learned authorities."Jem and I were accustomed to our father's last-will-and-testamentdiction, and we were at all times free to interrupt Atticus for atranslation when it was beyond our understanding.
当我打开前门时，阿蒂克斯说道：“斯库特，顺便说一句，你最好不要在学校里谈论我们的协议。”“为什么不呢？”“我担心我们的行为会遭到那些更有学识的权威人士的强烈反对。”杰姆和我已经习惯了父亲那份遗嘱式的措辞，当我们无法理解的时候，我们可以随时打断阿蒂克斯，请他翻译一下。
　　"Huh, sir?""I never went to school," he said, "but I have a feeling that if youtell Miss Caroline we read every night she'll get after me, and Iwouldn't want her after me."Atticus kept us in fits that evening, gravely reading columns ofprint about a man who sat on a flagpole for no discernible reason,which was reason enough for Jem to spend the following Saturdayaloft in the treehouse. Jem sat from after breakfast until sunsetand would have remained overnight had not Atticus severed his supplylines. I had spent most of the day climbing up and down, runningerrands for him, providing him with literature, nourishment and water,and was carrying him blankets for the night when Atticus said if Ipaid no attention to him, Jem would come down. Atticus was right.
“啊，先生？”“我没上过学，”他说，“但我感觉如果你告诉卡罗琳小姐我们每晚都读书，她会来找我的麻烦，我可不想让她来找我麻烦。”那天晚上，阿蒂克斯一本正经地读着几篇关于一个男人无缘无故坐在旗杆上的报道，把我们逗得直发脾气。这足以让杰姆在接下来的星期六待在树屋里。杰姆从早饭后一直坐到日落，要不是阿蒂克斯切断了他的补给线，他肯定能在那里待一整夜。我白天大部分时间都在树屋里爬上爬下，帮他跑腿，给他送书本、食物和水，还给他拿晚上用的毯子。这时阿蒂克斯说，如果我不理他，杰姆就会下来。阿蒂克斯说得对。
　　4The remainder of my schooldays were no more auspicious than thefirst. Indeed, they were an endless Project that slowly evolved into aUnit, in which miles of construction paper and wax crayon wereexpended by the State of Alabama in its well-meaning but fruitlessefforts to teach me Group Dynamics. What Jem called the DeweyDecimal System was school-wide by the end of my first year, so I hadno chance to compare it with other teaching techniques. I could onlylook around me: Atticus and my uncle, who went to school at home, kneweverything- at least, what one didn't know the other did. Furthermore,I couldn't help noticing that my father had served for years in thestate legislature, elected each time without opposition, innocent ofthe adjustments my teachers thought essential to the development ofGood Citizenship. Jem, educated on a half-Decimal half-Duncecap basis,seemed to function effectively alone or in a group, but Jem was a poorexample: no tutorial system devised by man could have stopped him fromgetting at books. As for me, I knew nothing except what I gatheredfrom Time magazine and reading everything I could lay hands on athome, but as I inched sluggishly along the treadmill of the MaycombCounty school system, I could not help receiving the impression that Iwas being cheated out of something. Out of what I knew not, yet Idid not believe that twelve years of unrelieved boredom was exactlywhat the state had in mind for me.
4我剩下的学生时代并不比第一天更顺利。事实上，那是一个永无止境的项目，慢慢地演变成一个单元。阿拉巴马州政府用尽了数英里的建筑纸和蜡笔，好心却徒劳地教我“群体动力学”。杰姆所说的杜威十进制教学法在我一年级结束时就已在全校范围内推广，所以我没有机会将它与其他教学方法进行比较。我只能环顾四周：阿蒂克斯和我的叔叔在家上学，他们无所不知——至少，他们不知道的，他们知道。此外，我不禁注意到，我的父亲曾在州议会任职多年，每次都是毫无争议地当选，他对我的老师们认为培养良好公民意识所必需的调整一无所知。杰姆受的教育一半是德克萨斯式教育，一半是傻瓜式教育，无论独自一人还是在小组中，他似乎都能很好地发挥作用，但他是个糟糕的例子：任何人类设计的辅导制度都无法阻止他学习书籍。至于我，我除了从《时代》杂志上收集的知识和阅读所有能在家里找到的资料外，什么都不懂。但当我在梅科姆县学校系统的跑步机上缓慢前行时，我不禁感到自己被骗了一些东西。我并不知道这些是骗来的，但我并不相信州政府打算让我过上十二年无休止的无聊生活。
　　As the year passed, released from school thirty minutes beforeJem, who had to stay until three o'clock, I ran by the Radley Place asfast as I could, not stopping until I reached the safety of ourfront porch. One afternoon as I raced by, something caught my eyeand caught it in such a way that I took a deep breath, a long lookaround, and went back.
一年过去了，我比杰姆早三十分钟放学，杰姆得待到三点，我飞快地跑过拉德利家，直到安全地跑到前廊才停下来。一天下午，我飞奔而过，突然有东西吸引了我的目光，我深深地吸了一口气，环顾四周，然后又跑了回去。
　　Two live oaks stood at the edge of the Radley lot; their rootsreached out into the side-road and made it bumpy. Something aboutone of the trees attracted my attention.
拉德利家的地皮边上，矗立着两棵橡树；它们的根伸进了路边，弄得路面坑坑洼洼。其中一棵树的某个地方吸引了我的注意。
　　Some tinfoil was sticking in a knot-hole just above my eye level,winking at me in the afternoon sun. I stood on tiptoe, hastilylooked around once more, reached into the hole, and withdrew twopieces of chewing gum minus their outer wrappers.
一块锡箔纸插在高于我视线的一个节孔里，在午后的阳光下向我眨眼。我踮起脚尖，急忙再次环顾四周，把手伸进节孔，取出两块没有外包装的口香糖。
　　My first impulse was to get it into my mouth as quickly as possible,but I remembered where I was. I ran home, and on our front porch Iexamined my loot. The gum looked fresh. I sniffed it and it smelledall right. I licked it and waited for a while. When I did not die Icrammed it into my mouth: Wrigley's Double-Mint.
我的第一反应是赶紧把它塞进嘴里，但我记起了自己在哪儿。我跑回家，在前廊检查我的战利品。口香糖看起来很新鲜。我闻了闻，味道还不错。我舔了舔，等了一会儿。看到我没死，我把它塞进了嘴里：箭牌薄荷味双倍口香糖。
　　When Jem came home he asked me where I got such a wad. I told himI found it.
杰姆回家后问我从哪儿弄来这么一大笔钱。我告诉他是我捡到的。
　　"Don't eat things you find, Scout.""This wasn't on the ground, it was in a tree."Jem growled.
“不要吃你找到的东西，斯库特。”“这不是在地上，而是在树上。”杰姆咆哮道。
　　"Well it was," I said. "It was sticking in that tree yonder, the onecomin' from school.""Spit it out right now!"I spat it out. The tang was fading, anyway. "I've been chewin' itall afternoon and I ain't dead yet, not even sick."Jem stamped his foot. "Don't you know you're not supposed to eventouch the trees over there? You'll get killed if you do!""You touched the house once!""That was different! You go gargle- right now, you hear me?""Ain't neither, it'll take the taste outa my mouth.""You don't 'n' I'll tell Calpurnia on you!"Rather than risk a tangle with Calpurnia, I did as Jem told me.
“嗯，是的，”我说。“它插在那边那棵树上，就是从学校过来的那棵。”“现在就吐出来！”我把它吐了出来。反正味道也消了。“我嚼了一下午，还没死，甚至都没病。”杰姆跺了跺脚。“你不知道你连碰那边的树都不许碰吗？碰了会死的！”“你碰过那栋房子！”“那不一样！你去漱口——现在，听见了吗？”“也不漱口，这会把我嘴里的味道去掉。”“你不许漱口，我要告诉卡尔普尼亚！”为了不冒着和卡尔普尼亚发生争执的风险，我照杰姆说的做了。
　　For some reason, my first year of school had wrought a great change inour relationship: Calpurnia's tyranny, unfairness, and meddling inmy business had faded to gentle grumblings of general disapproval.
不知什么原因，我上学的第一年就给我们的关系带来了巨大的变化：卡尔普尼亚的专横、不公平和对我事务的干涉已经逐渐变成了普遍的不满和抱怨。
　　On my part, I went to much trouble, sometimes, not to provoke her.
就我而言，有时我会费很大力气才不去激怒她。
　　Summer was on the way; Jem and I awaited it with impatience.
夏天即将来临；杰姆和我焦急地等待着它的到来。
　　Summer was our best season: it was sleeping on the back screened porchin cots, or trying to sleep in the treehouse; summer was everythinggood to eat; it was a thousand colors in a parched landscape; but mostof all, summer was Dill.
夏天是我们最好的季节：可以睡在门廊后面的纱窗帆布床上，或者试着在树屋里睡觉；夏天有各种好吃的东西；干旱的景色有千种颜色；但最重要的是，夏天有莳萝。
　　The authorities released us early the last day of school, and Jemand I walked home together. "Reckon old Dill'll be coming hometomorrow," I said.
学校最后一天，学校提前放了我们，我和杰姆一起走回家。“估计老迪尔明天就回家了。”我说。
　　"Probably day after," said Jem. "Mis'sippi turns 'em loose a daylater."As we came to the live oaks at the Radley Place I raised my fingerto point for the hundredth time to the knot-hole where I had found thechewing gum, trying to make Jem believe I had found it there, andfound myself pointing at another piece of tinfoil.
“可能后天吧，”杰姆说，“密西西比河过一天就放它们了。”我们来到拉德利家的橡树旁，我举起手指，第一百次指向我发现口香糖的那个节孔，想让杰姆相信我就是在那里找到的，结果却发现自己指着的是另一张锡箔纸。
　　"I see it, Scout! I see it-"Jem looked around, reached up, and gingerly pocketed a tiny shinypackage. We ran home, and on the front porch we looked at a smallbox patchworked with bits of tinfoil collected from chewing-gumwrappers. It was the kind of box wedding rings came in, purplevelvet with a minute catch. Jem flicked open the tiny catch. Insidewere two scrubbed and polished pennies, one on top of the other. Jemexamined them.
“我看到了，斯库特！我看到了——”杰姆环顾四周，伸手小心翼翼地把一个闪闪发光的小包裹放进口袋。我们跑回家，在前廊上，我们看到了一个用从口香糖包装纸上捡来的锡箔纸拼凑而成的小盒子。那是装结婚戒指的那种盒子，紫色天鹅绒的，上面有一个小小的卡扣。杰姆轻轻打开那个小小的卡扣。里面是两枚擦得锃亮的硬币，一枚叠在另一枚上面。杰姆仔细地端详着它们。
　　"Indian-heads," he said. "Nineteen-six and Scout, one of em'snineteen-hundred. These are real old.""Nineteen-hundred," I echoed. "Say-""Hush a minute, I'm thinkin'.""Jem, you reckon that's somebody's hidin' place?""Naw, don't anybody much but us pass by there, unless it's somegrown person's-""Grown folks don't have hidin' places. You reckon we ought to keep'em, Jem?""I don't know what we could do, Scout. Who'd we give 'em back to?
“印第安人头像，”他说。“196年和斯库特，1900年的一个。这些可真老了。”“1900年的，”我重复道。“我说——”“嘘，等等，我在想。”“杰姆，你觉得那是别人的藏身之处吗？”“不，除了我们，很少有人会经过那里，除非是哪个成年人的——”“成年人是没有藏身之处的。你觉得我们应该把它们留着，杰姆？”“我不知道该怎么办，斯库特。我们把它们还给谁呢？”
　　I know for a fact don't anybody go by there- Cecil goes by the backstreet an' all the way around by town to get home."Cecil Jacobs, who lived at the far end of our street next door tothe post office, walked a total of one mile per school day to avoidthe Radley Place and old Mrs. Henry Lafayette Dubose. Mrs. Duboselived two doors up the street from us; neighborhood opinion wasunanimous that Mrs. Dubose was the meanest old woman who ever lived.
“我确实知道没人会从那里经过——塞西尔会从后街绕过镇子回家。”塞西尔·雅各布斯住在我们这条街尽头邮局隔壁，他每个上学日要步行一英里，以避开拉德利家和老亨利·拉斐特·杜博斯太太。杜博斯太太住在我们家对面的两户人家；邻居们一致认为杜博斯太太是有史以来最刻薄的老女人。
　　Jem wouldn't go by her place without Atticus beside him.
如果没有阿提克斯在身边，杰姆是不会去她家的。
　　"What you reckon we oughta do, Jem?"Finders were keepers unless title was proven. Plucking an occasionalcamellia, getting a squirt of hot milk from Miss Maudie Atkinson's cowon a summer day, helping ourselves to someone's scuppernongs waspart of our ethical culture, but money was different.
“杰姆，你觉得我们该怎么办？”除非能证明所有权，否则拾得者为王。偶尔摘一朵山茶花，在夏日里从莫迪·阿特金森小姐的奶牛那里挤点热牛奶，或者随便拿点别人的斯卡帕农葡萄酒，这些都是我们道德文化的一部分，但金钱就不同了。
　　"Tell you what," said Jem. "We'll keep 'em till school starts,then go around and ask everybody if they're theirs. They're some buschild's, maybe- he was too taken up with gettin' outa school today an'
“跟你说吧，”杰姆说，“我们会把它们留到开学，然后四处问问每个人是不是他们的。也许是哪个保姆的——他今天太忙着逃学了，
　　forgot 'em. These are somebody's, I know that. See how they've beenslicked up? They've been saved.""Yeah, but why should somebody wanta put away chewing gum like that?
忘了。我知道，这些都是别人的。看看它们被擦得干干净净的吧？它们被救活了。“是啊，但为什么有人要把口香糖收起来呢？”
　　You know it doesn't last.""I don't know, Scout. But these are important to somebody…""How's that, Jem…？""Well, Indian-heads- well, they come from the Indians. They'rereal strong magic, they make you have good luck. Not like friedchicken when you're not lookin' for it, but things like long life'n' good health, 'n' passin' six-weeks tests… these are realvaluable to somebody. I'm gonna put em in my trunk."Before Jem went to his room, he looked for a long time at the RadleyPlace. He seemed to be thinking again.
你知道它不会持久的。“我不知道，斯库特。但这些对某些人很重要……”“怎么回事，杰姆……”“嗯，印第安人头——嗯，它们来自印第安人。它们有很强的魔力，能给你带来好运。不像不经意间吃到的炸鸡，而是长寿、健康，以及通过六周的测试之类的东西……这些对某些人来说真的很有价值。我要把它们放进我的行李箱里。”杰姆回房间之前，盯着拉德利家看了很久。他似乎又在思考。
　　Two days later Dill arrived in a blaze of glory: he had ridden thetrain by himself from Meridian to Maycomb Junction （a courtesytitle- Maycomb Junction was in Abbott County） where he had been met byMiss Rachel in Maycomb's one taxi; he had eaten dinner in the diner,he had seen two twins hitched together get off the train in Bay St.
两天后，迪尔兴高采烈地抵达了这里：他独自乘火车从默里迪恩到达了梅科姆枢纽站（这是个礼节性的称号——梅科姆枢纽站位于阿博特县），在那里，他遇到了乘坐梅科姆唯一一辆出租车的雷切尔小姐；他在小餐馆吃了晚饭，还看到两个搭便车的双胞胎在湾街下了火车。
　　Louis and stuck to his story regardless of threats. He had discardedthe abominable blue shorts that were buttoned to his shirts and worereal short pants with a belt; he was somewhat heavier, no taller,and said he had seen his father. Dill's father was taller than ours,he had a black beard （pointed）， and was president of the L & NRailroad.
路易斯，不顾威胁，坚持说他的故事。他脱掉了扣在衬衫上的讨厌的蓝色短裤，穿上了系着腰带的真正的短裤；他稍微胖了点，个子不高，还说他见过他的父亲。迪尔的父亲比我们高，留着黑色的（尖尖的）胡子，是 L&NRailroad 的总裁。
　　"I helped the engineer for a while," said Dill, yawning.
“我帮工程师一会儿，”迪尔打着哈欠说道。
　　"In a pig's ear you did, Dill. Hush," said Jem. "What'll we playtoday?""Tom and Sam and Dick," said Dill. "Let's go in the front yard."Dill wanted the Rover Boys because there were three respectable parts.
“你真是胡扯，迪尔。嘘，”杰姆说。“今天我们演什么？”“汤姆、萨姆和迪克，”迪尔说。“我们去前院吧。”迪尔想演流浪者男孩，因为有三个角色都挺有意思。
　　He was clearly tired of being our character man.
他显然厌倦了扮演我们的角色。
　　"I'm tired of those," I said. I was tired of playing Tom Rover,who suddenly lost his memory in the middle of a picture show and wasout of the script until the end, when he was found in Alaska.
“我受够了这些，”我说。我厌倦了扮演汤姆·罗弗，他在一场电影放映中突然失忆，剧本里的内容都写不出来，直到最后在阿拉斯加被人发现。
　　"Make us up one, Jem," I said. ...
　　"I'm tired of makin' 'em up."Our first days of freedom, and we were tired. I wondered what thesummer would bring.
“我厌倦了编造这些。”这是我们获得自由的最初几天，我们都很累。我不知道夏天会带来什么。
　　We had strolled to the front yard, where Dill stood looking down thestreet at the dreary face of the Radley Place. "I- smell- death," hesaid. "I do, I mean it," he said, when I told him to shut up.
我们漫步走到前院，迪尔站在那里，望着街上拉德利家阴郁的面容。“我——闻到了——死亡的气息，”他说。“是的，我是认真的，”我让他闭嘴，他却说。
　　"You mean when somebody's dyin' you can smell it?""No, I mean I can smell somebody an' tell if they're gonna die. Anold lady taught me how." Dill leaned over and sniffed me. "Jean-Louise- Finch, you are going to die in three days.""Dill if you don't hush I'll knock you bowlegged. I mean it, now-""Yawl hush," growled Jem, "you act like you believe in Hot Steams.""You act like you don't," I said.
“你是说，有人快要死了，你能闻到吗？”“不，我是说我能闻到别人的气味，就能知道他们是不是要死了。一个老太太教我的。”迪尔俯身嗅了嗅我。“琼·路易丝·芬奇，你三天后就死了。”“迪尔，你要是不闭嘴，我就把你打成罗圈腿。我说真的，现在……”“闭嘴，”杰姆咆哮道，“你装得好像你相信热蒸汽似的。”“你装得好像你不相信似的，”我说。
　　"What's a Hot Steam?" asked Dill.
“什么是热蒸汽？”迪尔问。
　　"Haven't you ever walked along a lonesome road at night and passedby a hot place?" Jem asked Dill. "A Hot Steam's somebody who can't getto heaven, just wallows around on lonesome roads an' if you walkthrough him, when you die you'll be one too, an' you'll go around atnight suckin' people's breath-""How can you keep from passing through one?""You can't," said Jem. "Sometimes they stretch all the way acrossthe road, but if you hafta go through one you say, 'Angel-bright,life-in-death; get off the road, don't suck my breath.' That keeps 'emfrom wrapping around you-""Don't you believe a word he says, Dill," I said. "Calpurnia saysthat's nigger-talk."Jem scowled darkly at me, but said, "Well, are we gonna playanything or not?""Let's roll in the tire," I suggested.
“你难道没有在夜晚走在一条偏僻的路上，路过一个炎热的地方吗？”杰姆问迪尔。“热气腾腾的人上不了天堂，只能在偏僻的路上打滚。如果你从他身边走过，你死后也会变成热气腾腾的人，你会在夜晚四处游荡，吸走人们的呼吸——”“你怎么才能不穿过一条热气腾腾的路呢？”“你做不到，”杰姆说。“有时候，热气腾腾的路会一直延伸到马路对面，但如果你不得不穿过一条，你就说：‘光明天使，死后依然生；走开，别吸走我的呼吸。’这样就能防止热气缠绕你——”“迪尔，你一个字也别信，”我说。 “卡尔普尼亚说那是黑鬼的语言。”杰姆阴沉地瞪着我，但说道：“好吧，我们到底要不要玩点什么？”“我们去玩轮胎吧，”我建议道。
　　Jem sighed. "You know I'm too big.""You c'n push."I ran to the back yard and pulled an old car tire from under thehouse. I slapped it up to the front yard. "I'm first," I said.
杰姆叹了口气。“你知道我太大了。”“你可以推。”我跑到后院，从屋底挖出一个旧汽车轮胎。我把它甩到前院。“我第一个，”我说。
　　Dill said he ought to be first, he just got here.
迪尔说他应该是第一个，他刚到这里。
　　Jem arbitrated, awarded me first push with an extra time for Dill,and I folded myself inside the tire.
杰姆做出裁决，判我先用力，并给迪尔多一点时间，然后我就把自己塞进了轮胎里。
　　Until it happened I did not realize that Jem was offended by mycontradicting him on Hot Steams, and that he was patiently awaiting anopportunity to reward me. He did, by pushing the tire down thesidewalk with all the force in his body. Ground, sky and houses meltedinto a mad palette, my ears throbbed, I was suffocating. I could notput out my hands to stop, they were wedged between my chest and knees.
直到事情发生，我才意识到杰姆因为我在“热蒸汽”问题上反驳他而生气了，他正耐心等待着一个机会来奖励我。他真的这么做了，用尽全身的力气把轮胎推下人行道。地面、天空和房屋都融化成一片疯狂的调色板，我的耳朵一阵阵抽痛，我快要窒息了。我无法伸出双手阻止，它们被卡在胸口和膝盖之间。
　　I could only hope that Jem would outrun the tire and me, or that Iwould be stopped by a bump in the sidewalk. I heard him behind me,chasing and shouting.
我只能希望杰姆能跑得比轮胎和我快，或者被人行道上的一个凸起拦住。我听到他在我身后追赶，大喊大叫。
　　The tire bumped on gravel, skeetered across the road, crashed into abarrier and popped me like a cork onto pavement. Dizzy andnauseated, I lay on the cement and shook my head still, pounded myears to silence, and heard Jem's voice: "Scout, get away from there,come on!"I raised my head and stared at the Radley Place steps in front ofme. I froze.
轮胎在碎石路上颠簸，滑过马路，撞上护栏，把我像软木塞一样摔在人行道上。我感到头晕目眩，恶心难忍，躺在水泥地上，不停地摇着头，用力捶打着耳朵，直到声音安静下来，这时我听到杰姆的声音：“斯库特，快走，离开那里！”我抬起头，盯着面前拉德利家的台阶。我僵住了。
　　"Come on, Scout, don't just lie there!" Jem was screaming. "Getup, can'tcha?"I got to my feet, trembling as I thawed.
“快点，斯库特，别躺在那儿！”杰姆尖叫道。“起来，行吗？”我站起身，浑身颤抖，渐渐暖和起来。
　　"Get the tire!" Jem hollered. "Bring it with you! Ain't you gotany sense at all?"When I was able to navigate, I ran back to them as fast as myshaking knees would carry me.
“把轮胎拿来！”杰姆喊道。“快带上！你还有点儿脑子吗？”等我终于能辨别方向后，我颤抖的双腿拼命地跑回他们身边。
　　"Why didn't you bring it?" Jem yelled.
“你为什么不把它带来？”杰姆喊道。
　　"Why don't you get it?" I screamed.
“你为什么不明白？”我尖叫道。
　　Jem was silent. ...
　　"Go on, it ain't far inside the gate. Why, you even touched thehouse once, remember?"Jem looked at me furiously, could not decline, ran down thesidewalk, treaded water at the gate, then dashed in and retrievedthe tire.
“快点，进门不远。怎么，你甚至碰过房子一次，记得吗？”杰姆怒视着我，无法拒绝，他沿着人行道跑下去，在门口踩水，然后冲进去捡回轮胎。
　　"See there?" Jem was scowling triumphantly. "Nothin' to it. I swear,Scout, sometimes you act so much like a girl it's mortifyin'."There was more to it than he knew, but I decided not to tell him.
“看到了吗？”杰姆得意地皱着眉头。“没什么大不了的。我发誓，斯库特，你有时候表现得太像个女孩了，真让人丢脸。”事情远比他知道的要复杂，但我决定不告诉他。
　　Calpurnia appeared in the front door and yelled, "Lemonade time! Youall get in outa that hot sun 'fore you fry alive!" Lemonade in themiddle of the morning was a summertime ritual. Calpurnia set a pitcherand three glasses on the porch, then went about her business. Beingout of Jem's good graces did not worry me especially. Lemonade wouldrestore his good humor.
卡尔珀尼亚出现在前门，喊道：“柠檬水时间到了！快进来躲避烈日，不然就被活活晒死了！” 大清早喝柠檬水是夏天的惯例。卡尔珀尼亚把一个水罐和三个杯子放在门廊上，然后就去忙她的事了。我并不特别担心失去杰姆的好感。柠檬水能让他恢复好心情。
　　Jem gulped down his second glassful and slapped his chest. "I knowwhat we are going to play," he announced. "Something new, somethingdifferent.""What?" asked Dill.
杰姆一口气喝下第二杯，拍了拍胸脯。“我知道我们要玩什么了，”他宣布。“玩点新东西，玩点不一样的东西。”“什么？”迪尔问。
　　"Boo Radley."Jem's head at times was transparent: he had thought that up tomake me understand he wasn't afraid of Radleys in any shape or form,to contrast his own fearless heroism with my cowardice.
“嘘，拉德利。”杰姆的头脑有时很透明：他想出这个主意是为了让我明白，他并不害怕拉德利一家，以他无畏的英雄气概与我的懦弱形成对比。
　　"Boo Radley? How?" asked Dill.
“嘘，拉德利？怎么回事？”迪尔问。
　　Jem said, "Scout, you can be Mrs. Radley-""I declare if I will. I don't think-""'Smatter?" said Dill. "Still scared?""He can get out at night when we're all asleep…" I said.
杰姆说：“斯库特，你可以扮演拉德利太太——”“我宣布，如果我愿意的话。我不认为——”“什么事？”迪尔说。“还害怕吗？”“他晚上可以趁我们都睡着的时候跑出来……”我说。
　　Jem hissed. "Scout, how's he gonna know what we're doin'? Besides, Idon't think he's still there. He died years ago and they stuffed himup the chimney."Dill said, "Jem, you and me can play and Scout can watch if she'sscared."I was fairly sure Boo Radley was inside that house, but I couldn'tprove it, and felt it best to keep my mouth shut or I would be accusedof believing in Hot Steams, phenomena I was immune to in the daytime.
杰姆嘶嘶地说：“斯库特，他怎么会知道我们在干什么？再说，我觉得他肯定不在那儿了。他好多年前就死了，他们把他塞进了烟囱。”迪尔说：“杰姆，你和我可以玩，斯库特要是害怕的话可以看看。”我相当肯定布·拉德利就在那栋房子里，但我无法证明，觉得最好还是闭嘴，不然我会被指责相信热气，而我白天对这种现象免疫。
　　Jem parceled out our roles: I was Mrs. Radley, and all I had to dowas come out and sweep the porch. Dill was old Mr. Radley: he walkedup and down the sidewalk and coughed when Jem spoke to him. Jem,naturally, was Boo: he went under the front steps and shrieked andhowled from time to time.
杰姆给我们分配了角色：我扮演拉德利太太，我只需要出来打扫门廊。迪尔扮演老拉德利先生：他在人行道上走来走去，杰姆跟他说话时他就咳嗽。杰姆自然是扮演布：他走到前门台阶下，不时尖叫嚎叫。
　　As the summer progressed, so did our game. We polished and perfectedit, added dialogue and plot until we had manufactured a small playupon which we rang changes every day.
随着夏天的流逝，我们的游戏也日新月异。我们不断打磨和完善编辑，添加对话和情节，直到最终制作出一个小型游戏，并每天对其进行修改。
　　Dill was a villain's villain: he could get into any character partassigned him, and appear tall if height was part of the devilryrequired. He was as good as his worst performance; his worstperformance was Gothic. I reluctantly played assorted ladies whoentered the script. I never thought it as much fun as Tarzan, and Iplayed that summer with more than vague anxiety despite Jem'sassurances that Boo Radley was dead and nothing would get me, with himand Calpurnia there in the daytime and Atticus home at night.
迪尔是反派中的反派：他能演任何指派给他的角色，而且如果角色需要身高，他还能显得很高大。他的演技和他最糟糕的表演一样好；最糟糕的表演是哥特式的。我勉强扮演了剧本里各种各样的女士。我从未觉得这能像扮演泰山那样有趣，那个夏天，尽管杰姆保证布·拉德利已经死了，没有什么能吓倒我，但我仍然感到无比焦虑，因为白天他和卡尔普尼亚在那儿，晚上阿蒂克斯在家。
　　Jem was a born hero.
杰姆是一位天生的英雄。
　　It was a melancholy little drama, woven from bits and scraps ofgossip and neighborhood legend: Mrs. Radley had been beautiful untilshe married Mr. Radley and lost all her money. She also lost most ofher teeth, her hair, and her right forefinger （Dill's contribution.
这是一部忧郁的小剧，由零星的流言蜚语和邻里传说编织而成：拉德利太太曾经很漂亮，直到嫁给拉德利先生，失去了所有的钱。她还失去了大部分牙齿、头发和右手食指（迪尔的贡献）。
　　Boo bit it off one night when he couldn't find any cats andsquirrels to eat.）； she sat in the livingroom and cried most of thetime, while Boo slowly whittled away all the furniture in the house.
一天晚上，布找不到猫和松鼠吃，就把它咬掉了。）；她大部分时间都坐在客厅里哭泣，而布则慢慢地把房子里的所有家具削掉。
　　The three of us were the boys who got into trouble; I was theprobate judge, for a change; Dill led Jem away and crammed him beneaththe steps, poking him with the brushbroom. Jem would reappear asneeded in the shapes of the sheriff, assorted townsfolk, and MissStephanie Crawford, who had more to say about the Radleys than anybodyin Maycomb.
我们三个都是惹麻烦的男孩；我换了个方式当遗嘱认证法官；迪尔把杰姆带走，塞到台阶下，用扫帚戳他。杰姆会根据需要再次出现，化身为警长、镇上各色人等，还有斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐——在梅科姆，她对拉德利一家的评价比任何人都高。
　　When it was time to play Boo's big scene, Jem would sneak into thehouse, steal the scissors from the sewing-machine drawer whenCalpurnia's back was turned, then sit in the swing and cut upnewspapers. Dill would walk by, cough at Jem, and Jem would fake aplunge into Dill's thigh. From where I stood it looked real.
每当布演大戏的时候，杰姆就会偷偷溜进屋子，趁卡尔珀尼亚不注意的时候从缝纫机抽屉里偷剪刀，然后坐在秋千上剪报纸。迪尔会走过来，对着杰姆咳嗽，杰姆就会假装扑向迪尔的大腿。从我站的地方看，那场面就像真的一样。
　　When Mr. Nathan Radley passed us on his daily trip to town, we wouldstand still and silent until he was out of sight, then wonder whathe would do to us if he suspected. Our activities halted when any ofthe neighbors appeared, and once I saw Miss Maudie Atkinson staringacross the street at us, her hedge clippers poised in midair.
内森·拉德利先生每天进城时，每次经过我们这里，我们都会静静地站着，直到他消失不见，然后琢磨着如果他怀疑到我们会怎么办。只要有邻居出现，我们就会停下来。有一次，我看到莫迪·阿特金森小姐正站在街对面盯着我们，她的修枝剪高高地悬在半空中。
　　One day we were so busily playing Chapter XXV, Book II of OneMan's Family, we did not see Atticus standing on the sidewalklooking at us, slapping a rolled magazine against his knee. The sunsaid twelve noon.
有一天，我们正忙着玩《一个人的家庭》第二卷第二十五章，没注意到阿蒂克斯站在人行道上看着我们，一边用一本卷起来的杂志拍打着膝盖。太阳已经到了中午十二点。
　　"What are you all playing?" he asked.
“你们都在玩什么？”他问道。
　　"Nothing," said Jem. ...
　　Jem's evasion told me our game was a secret, so I kept quiet.
杰姆的回避告诉我我们的游戏是一个秘密，所以我保持沉默。
　　"What are you doing with those scissors, then? Why are you tearingup that newspaper? If it's today's I'll tan you.""Nothing.""Nothing what?" said Atticus.
“那你拿剪刀干什么？你撕报纸干什么？如果是今天的报纸，我就把你晒黑。”“没什么。”“没什么什么？”阿蒂克斯说。
　　"Nothing, sir.""Give me those scissors," Atticus said. "They're no things to playwith. Does this by any chance have anything to do with the Radleys?""No sir," said Jem, reddening.
“没什么，先生。”“把剪刀给我，”阿蒂克斯说。“不是玩的。这事跟拉德利家有什么关系吗？”“没有，先生，”杰姆红着脸说。
　　"I hope it doesn't," he said shortly, and went inside the house.
“我希望不会，”他简短地说道，然后走进了屋子。
　　"Je-m…""Shut up! He's gone in the livingroom, he can hear us in there."Safely in the yard, Dill asked Jem if we could play any more.
“杰姆……”“闭嘴！他去客厅了，他能听到我们在里面的声音。”安全地回到院子后，迪尔问杰姆我们还能不能再玩一会儿。
　　"I don't know. Atticus didn't say we couldn't-""Jem," I said, "I think Atticus knows it anyway.""No he don't. If he did he'd say he did."I was not so sure, but Jem told me I was being a girl, that girlsalways imagined things, that's why other people hated them so, andif I started behaving like one I could just go off and find some toplay with.
“我不知道。阿蒂克斯没说我们不能——” “杰姆，”我说，“我想阿蒂克斯反正知道。” “他不知道。就算他知道，也会说知道。” 我不太确定，但杰姆告诉我，我像个女孩子，女孩子总是爱幻想，所以别人才那么讨厌她们，如果我也像个女孩子一样，我就可以去找个女孩子玩了。
　　"All right, you just keep it up then," I said. "You'll find out."Atticus's arrival was the second reason I wanted to quit the game.
“好吧，那你就继续打吧，”我说，“你会知道的。”阿蒂克斯的到来是我想退出游戏的第二个原因。
　　The first reason happened the day I rolled into the Radley front yard.
第一个原因发生在我走进拉德利前院的那天。
　　Through all the head-shaking, quelling of nausea and Jem-yelling, Ihad heard another sound, so low I could not have heard it from thesidewalk. Someone inside the house was laughing.
我一边摇头，一边强忍恶心，一边大声喊着杰姆，这时，我听到了另一个声音，声音很低，在人行道上根本听不见。屋里有人在笑。
　　5My nagging got the better of Jem eventually, as I knew it would, andto my relief we slowed down the game for a while. He still maintained,however, that Atticus hadn't said we couldn't, therefore we could; andif Atticus ever said we couldn't, Jem had thought of a way aroundit: he would simply change the names of the characters and then wecouldn't be accused of playing anything.
5我的唠叨最终战胜了杰姆，正如我预料的那样，让我松了一口气的是，我们把游戏速度放慢了一段时间。然而，他仍然坚持认为，阿蒂克斯没说我们不能玩，所以我们可以；如果阿蒂克斯说我们不能玩，杰姆肯定想了个办法：他只要改一下角色的名字，这样我们就不会被指责玩弄花招了。
　　Dill was in hearty agreement with this plan of action. Dill wasbecoming something of a trial anyway, following Jem about. He hadasked me earlier in the summer to marry him, then he promptly forgotabout it. He staked me out, marked as his property, said I was theonly girl he would ever love, then he neglected me. I beat him uptwice but it did no good, he only grew closer to Jem. They spentdays together in the treehouse plotting and planning, calling meonly when they needed a third party. But I kept aloof from theirmore foolhardy schemes for a while, and on pain of being called agirl, I spent most of the remaining twilights that summer sitting withMiss Maudie Atkinson on her front porch.
迪尔衷心赞同这个计划。迪尔现在也成了杰姆的麻烦，到处跟着他。今年夏天早些时候，他曾向我求婚，但很快就忘了。他把我当作自己的财产，说我是他唯一会爱的女孩，然后就把我抛诸脑后。我揍了他两次，但毫无效果，他反而和杰姆的关系更加亲密了。他们整天待在树屋里，密谋划策，只有需要第三方的时候才会叫我。但我暂时避开了他们那些更鲁莽的计划，因为害怕被人叫“女孩”，那年夏天剩下的大部分黄昏，我都和莫迪·阿特金森小姐坐在她家的前廊上。
　　Jem and I had always enjoyed the free run of Miss Maudie's yard ifwe kept out of her azaleas, but our contact with her was not clearlydefined. Until Jem and Dill excluded me from their plans, she was onlyanother lady in the neighborhood, but a relatively benign presence.
只要不去碰莫迪小姐的杜鹃花，杰姆和我一直很享受在她院子里自由活动，但我们与她的联系并不明确。在杰姆和迪尔把我排除在他们的计划之外之前，她只是邻居里一位普通的女士，但相对来说，她是一个和蔼可亲的人。
　　Our tacit treaty with Miss Maudie was that we could play on herlawn, eat her scuppernongs if we didn't jump on the arbor, and exploreher vast back lot, terms so generous we seldom spoke to her, socareful were we to preserve the delicate balance of ourrelationship, but Jem and Dill drove me closer to her with theirbehavior.
我们与莫迪小姐达成了心照不宣的协议，我们可以在她的草坪上玩耍，如果我们不跳上凉亭，就可以吃她的斯卡帕农葡萄，还可以探索她广阔的后院，条件如此慷慨，我们很少和她说话，我们如此小心地保持着我们关系中微妙的平衡，但杰姆和迪尔的行为让我和她更加亲近。
　　Miss Maudie hated her house: time spent indoors was time wasted. Shewas a widow, a chameleon lady who worked in her flower beds in anold straw hat and men's coveralls, but after her five o'clock bath shewould appear on the porch and reign over the street in magisterialbeauty.
莫迪小姐讨厌她的房子：待在家里就是浪费时间。她是个寡妇，像个变色龙一样，戴着旧草帽，穿着男式工作服在花坛里干活，但五点钟洗完澡后，她就会出现在门廊上，以庄严的美貌俯瞰街道。
　　She loved everything that grew in God's earth, even the weeds.
她热爱上帝创造的土地上生长的一切，甚至包括杂草。
　　With one exception. If she found a blade of nut grass in her yard itwas like the Second Battle of the Marne: she swooped down upon it witha tin tub and subjected it to blasts from beneath with a poisonoussubstance she said was so powerful it'd kill us all if we didn't standout of the way.
但有一个例外。如果她在院子里发现一片香附子，那就像第二次马恩河战役一样：她会用一个锡桶猛扑过去，从下面喷洒一种有毒物质，她说这种物质威力极大，如果我们不躲开，就会把我们都杀了。
　　"Why can't you just pull it up?" I asked, after witnessing aprolonged campaign against a blade not three inches high.
“为什么你不能把它拔起来？”在目睹了这场与不到三英寸高的刀片的长时间战斗后，我问道。
　　"Pull it up, child, pull it up?" She picked up the limp sprout andsqueezed her thumb up its tiny stalk. Microscopic grains oozed out.
“拔出来，孩子，拔出来？”她捡起那棵软塌塌的嫩芽，用拇指捏了捏它细小的茎秆。细小的颗粒从里面渗了出来。
　　"Why, one sprig of nut grass can ruin a whole yard. Look here. When itcomes fall this dries up and the wind blows it all over MaycombCounty!" Miss Maudie's face likened such an occurrence unto an OldTestament pestilence.
“哎呀，一根香附子就能毁掉一整院子。瞧这儿。到了秋天，这根香附子就枯萎了，风一吹，就把整个梅科姆县都吹走了！”莫迪小姐的表情把这种事比作《旧约》里的瘟疫。
　　Her speech was crisp for a Maycomb County inhabitant. She calledus by all our names, and when she grinned she revealed two minute goldprongs clipped to her eyeteeth. When I admired them and hoped Iwould have some eventually, she said, "Look here." With a click of hertongue she thrust out her bridgework, a gesture of cordiality thatcemented our friendship.
对于梅科姆县的居民来说，她说话干脆利落。她叫我们所有人的名字，咧嘴一笑，露出了夹在她犬齿上的两根细小的金爪。我欣赏着它们，希望自己以后也能拥有一对，她却说：“看这儿。”她舌尖一碰，把她的假牙伸出来，这个热情的举动巩固了我们的友谊。
　　Miss Maudie's benevolence extended to Jem and Dill, whenever theypaused in their pursuits: we reaped the benefits of a talent MissMaudie had hitherto kept hidden from us. She made the best cakes inthe neighborhood. When she was admitted into our confidence, everytime she baked she made a big cake and three little ones, and shewould call across the street: "Jem Finch, Scout Finch, Charles BakerHarris, come here!" Our promptness was always rewarded.
每当杰姆和迪尔忙得不可开交时，莫迪小姐的仁慈便会延伸到他们身上：莫迪小姐一直以来对我们隐瞒的一项才能，让我们受益匪浅。她做的蛋糕是附近最好的。自从我们把她当成知己后，她每次烤蛋糕都会做一个大蛋糕和三个小蛋糕，然后隔着街喊：“杰姆·芬奇，斯库特·芬奇，查尔斯·贝克·哈里斯，快过来！”我们的及时性总能得到回报。
　　In summertime, twilights are long and peaceful. Often as not, MissMaudie and I would sit silently on her porch, watching the sky go fromyellow to pink as the sun went down, watching flights of martins sweeplow over the neighborhood and disappear behind the schoolhouserooftops.
夏日的黄昏悠长而宁静。我和莫迪小姐常常静静地坐在她家的门廊上，看着天空随着太阳落山而由黄转粉，看着一群群燕子掠过街区，消失在校舍的屋顶后。
　　"Miss Maudie," I said one evening, "do you think Boo Radley'sstill alive?""His name's Arthur and he's alive," she said. She was rocking slowlyin her big oak chair. "Do you smell my mimosa? It's like angels'
“莫迪小姐，”一天晚上，我问道，“你觉得布·拉德利还活着吗？”“他叫亚瑟，他还活着，”她说。她正坐在大橡木椅上慢慢摇晃着。“你闻到我的含羞草了吗？它就像天使的……
　　breath this evening.""Yessum. How do you know?""Know what, child?""That B- Mr. Arthur's still alive?""What a morbid question. But I suppose it's a morbid subject. I knowhe's alive, Jean Louise, because I haven't seen him carried out yet.""Maybe he died and they stuffed him up the chimney.""Where did you get such a notion?""That's what Jem said he thought they did.""S-ss-ss. He gets more like Jack Finch every day."Miss Maudie had known Uncle Jack Finch, Atticus's brother, sincethey were children. Nearly the same age, they had grown up together atFinch's Landing. Miss Maudie was the daughter of a neighboringlandowner, Dr. Frank Buford. Dr. Buford's profession was medicineand his obsession was anything that grew in the ground, so he stayedpoor. Uncle Jack Finch confined his passion for digging to hiswindow boxes in Nashville and stayed rich. We saw Uncle Jack everyChristmas, and every Christmas he yelled across the street for MissMaudie to come marry him. Miss Maudie would yell back, "Call alittle louder, Jack Finch, and they'll hear you at the post office,I haven't heard you yet!" Jem and I thought this a strange way toask for a lady's hand in marriage, but then Uncle Jack was ratherstrange. He said he was trying to get Miss Maudie's goat, that hehad been trying unsuccessfully for forty years, that he was the lastperson in the world Miss Maudie would think about marrying but thefirst person she thought about teasing, and the best defense to herwas spirited offense, all of which we understood clearly.
“今晚就没呼吸了。”“是的，先生。你怎么知道的？”“知道什么，孩子？”“那位 B……亚瑟先生还活着？”“真是个病态的问题。不过我想这的确是个病态的话题。我知道他还活着，琼·路易丝，因为我还没亲眼看见他被抬出去呢。”“也许他死了，然后他们把他塞进了烟囱。”“你从哪儿听来的这种想法？”“杰姆说他认为他们是这么想的。”“嘶嘶嘶。他一天比一天更像杰克·芬奇了。”莫迪小姐从小就认识杰克·芬奇叔叔，也就是阿蒂克斯的哥哥。他们年纪相仿，一起在芬奇庄园长大。莫迪小姐是邻近地主弗兰克·布福德医生的女儿。布福德医生的职业是医学，他对任何长在地里的东西都痴迷不已，所以他一直很穷。杰克·芬奇叔叔把他对挖掘的热情局限于纳什维尔的窗台花箱，因此一直很富有。我们每年圣诞节都能见到杰克叔叔，每年圣诞节他都会在街对面大声喊莫迪小姐来嫁给他。莫迪小姐会回应道：“杰克·芬奇，叫得大声点，邮局的人会听到的，我还没听到呢！”杰姆和我都觉得这种求婚方式很奇怪，但杰克叔叔也挺奇怪的。他说他是想让莫迪小姐嫁给他。山羊，四十年来他一直在努力却始终没有成功，他是莫迪小姐在这个世界上最不愿意结婚的人，但却是她第一个想到要取笑的人，对她来说，最好的防御就是激烈的进攻，所有这些我们都非常清楚。
　　"Arthur Radley just stays in the house, that's all," said MissMaudie. "Wouldn't you stay in the house if you didn't want to comeout?""Yessum, but I'd wanta come out. Why doesn't he?"Miss Maudie's eyes narrowed. "You know that story as well as I do.""I never heard why, though. Nobody ever told me why."Miss Maudie settled her bridgework. "You know old Mr. Radley was afoot-washing Baptist-""That's what you are, ain't it?""My shell's not that hard, child. I'm just a Baptist.""Don't you all believe in foot-washing?""We do. At home in the bathtub.""But we can't have communion with you all-"Apparently deciding that it was easier to define primitive baptistrythan closed communion, Miss Maudie said: "Foot-washers believeanything that's pleasure is a sin. Did you know some of 'em came outof the woods one Saturday and passed by this place and told me meand my flowers were going to hell?""Your flowers, too?""Yes ma'am. They'd burn right with me. They thought I spent too muchtime in God's outdoors and not enough time inside the house readingthe Bible."My confidence in pulpit Gospel lessened at the vision of Miss Maudiestewing forever in various Protestant hells. True enough, she had anacid tongue in her head, and she did not go about the neighborhooddoing good, as did Miss Stephanie Crawford. But while no one with agrain of sense trusted Miss Stephanie, Jem and I had considerablefaith in Miss Maudie. She had never told on us, had never playedcat-and-mouse with us, she was not at all interested in our privatelives. She was our friend. How so reasonable a creature could livein peril of everlasting torment was incomprehensible.
“亚瑟·拉德利就待在屋子里，仅此而已，”莫迪小姐说。“如果你不想出来，难道就不待在屋子里吗？”“是的，夫人，但我还是想出来。他为什么不出来？”莫迪小姐眯起了眼睛。“你跟我一样了解这个故事。”“不过，我从来没听说过为什么。从来没人告诉过我为什么。”莫迪小姐安顿好了她的牙桥。 “你知道老拉德利先生是个洗脚浸礼会教徒——”“你就是那样的，对吧？”“孩子，我的壳没那么硬。我只是个浸礼会教徒。”“你们不都信洗脚吗？”“我们信。在家的浴缸里就信。”“但我们不能和你们所有人领圣餐——”莫迪小姐显然觉得定义原始洗礼比封闭式圣餐更容易，于是说道：“洗脚会教徒认为任何享乐之事都是罪孽。你知道吗，他们中的一些人某个星期六从树林里出来，路过这里，告诉我我的花要下地狱了？”“你的花也要下地狱了？”“是的，夫人。它们会和我一起被烧死。他们认为我在户外待得太久，在家里读圣经的时间太少。”想到莫迪小姐永远在新教的地狱里煎熬，我对讲台福音的信心就减弱了。的确，她说话尖酸刻薄，不像斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐那样在邻里之间做好事。不过，虽然任何有理智的人都不会相信斯蒂芬妮小姐，但我和杰姆却对莫迪小姐相当信任。她从未告发过我们，从未和我们玩过猫捉老鼠的游戏，她对我们的私生活也毫不关心。她是我们的朋友。一个如此理智的人怎么会生活在永远受折磨的危险之中，真是令人费解。
　　"That ain't right, Miss Maudie. You're the best lady I know."Miss Maudie grinned. "Thank you ma'am. Thing is, foot-washersthink women are a sin by definition. They take the Bible literally,you know.""Is that why Mr. Arthur stays in the house, to keep away fromwomen?""I've no idea.""It doesn't make sense to me. Looks like if Mr. Arthur was hankerin'
“不对，莫迪小姐。你是我认识的最好的女士。”莫迪小姐咧嘴一笑。“谢谢您，夫人。问题是，洗脚者认为女人从定义上来说就是罪孽。你知道，他们把《圣经》当真了。”“这就是亚瑟先生待在家里，远离女人的原因吗？”“我不知道。”“我不明白。看起来，亚瑟先生好像渴望……
　　after heaven he'd come out on the porch at least. Atticus says God'sloving folks like you love yourself-"Miss Maudie stopped rocking, and her voice hardened. "You are tooyoung to understand it," she said, "but sometimes the Bible in thehand of one man is worse than a whiskey bottle in the hand of- oh,of your father."I was shocked. "Atticus doesn't drink whiskey," I said. "He neverdrunk a drop in his life- nome, yes he did. He said he drank someone time and didn't like it."Miss Maudie laughed. "Wasn't talking about your father," she said.
至少，在天堂之后，他会走到门廊上。阿蒂克斯说，像你这样爱上帝的人，也要爱自己——”莫迪小姐停止了摇晃，语气变得强硬起来。“你太小了，无法理解，”她说，“但有时候，一个人手里拿着《圣经》，比你——哦，你爸爸手里拿着威士忌酒瓶还要糟糕。”我大吃一惊。“阿蒂克斯不喝威士忌，”我说。“他这辈子一滴酒都没喝过——不，他喝过。他说他喝过一次，而且不喜欢。”莫迪小姐笑了。“我不是在说你爸爸，”她说。
　　"What I meant was, if Atticus Finch drank until he was drunk hewouldn't be as hard as some men are at their best. There are just somekind of men who- who're so busy worrying about the next worldthey've never learned to live in this one, and you can look down thestreet and see the results.""Do you think they're true, all those things they say about B- Mr.
“我的意思是，如果阿蒂克斯·芬奇一直喝酒喝到醉，他就不会像有些人状态最好的时候那么狠心了。有些人就是——他们太忙于担心来世，却从未学会如何在这个世界生活，你往下看看就知道后果了。”“你觉得他们说的那些关于 B 先生的事都是真的吗？
　　Arthur?""What things?"I told her.
亚瑟？”“什么事？”我告诉她。
　　"That is three-fourths colored folks and one-fourth StephanieCrawford," said Miss Maudie grimly. "Stephanie Crawford even told meonce she woke up in the middle of the night and found him looking inthe window at her. I said what did you do, Stephanie, move over in thebed and make room for him? That shut her up a while."I was sure it did. Miss Maudie's voice was enough to shut anybodyup.
“那人有四分之三是黑人，四分之一是斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德，”莫迪小姐阴沉地说。“斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德甚至告诉我，有一次她半夜醒来，发现他正透过窗户看着她。我说斯蒂芬妮，你做了什么？挪到床上去给他腾出地方？这让她闭嘴了一会儿。”我确信确实如此。莫迪小姐的声音足以让任何人闭嘴。
　　"No, child," she said, "that is a sad house. I remember ArthurRadley when he was a boy. He always spoke nicely to me, no matter whatfolks said he did. Spoke as nicely as he knew how.""You reckon he's crazy?"Miss Maudie shook her head. "If he's not he should be by now. Thethings that happen to people we never really know. What happens inhouses behind closed doors, what secrets-""Atticus don't ever do anything to Jem and me in the house that hedon't do in the yard," I said, feeling it my duty to defend my parent.
“不，孩子，”她说，“那房子真让人伤心。我记得亚瑟·拉德利小时候。不管别人怎么说，他总是跟我好好说话。他说话总是那么和蔼可亲。”“你觉得他疯了吗？”莫迪小姐摇了摇头。“就算他没疯，现在也应该疯了。人身上发生的事情我们永远无法真正了解。关起门来，屋子里会发生什么，什么秘密——”“阿蒂克斯在屋子里对杰姆和我做的，除了在院子里做以外，什么事都做不了。”我说，觉得自己有责任为我的父亲辩护。
　　"Gracious child, I was raveling a thread, wasn't even thinking aboutyour father, but now that I am I'll say this: Atticus Finch is thesame in his house as he is on the public streets. How'd you likesome fresh poundcake to take home?"I liked it very much.
“乖孩子，我刚才胡思乱想，根本没想过你父亲，现在我得说：阿提克斯·芬奇在他家里和在大街上都一样。你想带点新鲜的磅蛋糕回家吗？”我非常喜欢。
　　Next morning when I awakened I found Jem and Dill in the back yarddeep in conversation. When I joined them, as usual they said go away.
第二天早上醒来，发现杰姆和迪尔在后院里正聊得热火朝天。我走到他们跟前，他们像往常一样叫我走开。
　　"Will not. This yard's as much mine as it is yours, Jem Finch. I gotjust as much right to play in it as you have."Dill and Jem emerged from a brief huddle: "If you stay you've got todo what we tell you," Dill warned.
“不会的。这院子既是你的，也是我的，杰姆·芬奇。我跟你一样有权利在这里玩耍。”迪尔和杰姆短暂地凑在一起后走了出来：“如果你留下来，就得照我们说的做。”迪尔警告道。
　　"We-ll," I said, "who's so high and mighty all of a sudden?""If you don't say you'll do what we tell you, we ain't gonna tellyou anything," Dill continued.
“好吧，”我说，“是谁突然这么傲慢？”“如果你不答应照我们说的做，我们什么也不会告诉你，”迪尔继续说道。
　　"You act like you grew ten inches in the night! All right, what isit?"Jem said placidly, "We are going to give a note to Boo Radley.""Just how?" I was trying to fight down the automatic terror risingin me. It was all right for Miss Maudie to talk- she was old andsnug on her porch. It was different for us.
“你一夜之间好像长高了十英寸！好了，怎么回事？”杰姆平静地说：“我们要给怪人拉德利留个字条。”“怎么留？”我努力克制着内心升起的恐惧。对莫迪小姐来说，说话没什么问题——她年纪大了，舒舒服服地待在自家的门廊里。我们的情况就不同了。
　　Jem was merely going to put the note on the end of a fishing poleand stick it through the shutters. If anyone came along, Dill wouldring the bell.
杰姆只是打算把纸条挂在鱼竿头上，然后从百叶窗里塞进去。如果有人过来，迪尔就会按门铃。
　　Dill raised his right hand. In it was my mother's silverdinner-bell.
迪尔举起了右手。手里拿着我母亲的银质餐铃。
　　"I'm goin' around to the side of the house," said Jem. "We lookedyesterday from across the street, and there's a shutter loose. Thinkmaybe I can make it stick on the window sill, at least.""Jem-""Now you're in it and you can't get out of it, you'll just stay init, Miss Priss!""Okay, okay, but I don't wanta watch. Jem, somebody was-""Yes you will, you'll watch the back end of the lot and Dill's gonnawatch the front of the house an' up the street, an' if anybody comeshe'll ring the bell. That clear?""All right then. What'd you write him?"Dill said, "We're askin' him real politely to come out sometimes,and tell us what he does in there- we said we wouldn't hurt him andwe'd buy him an ice cream.""You all've gone crazy, he'll kill us!"Dill said, "It's my idea. I figure if he'd come out and sit aspell with us he might feel better.""How do you know he don't feel good?""Well how'd you feel if you'd been shut up for a hundred yearswith nothin' but cats to eat? I bet he's got a beard down to here-""Like your daddy's?""He ain't got a beard, he-" Dill stopped, as if trying to remember.
“我要绕到房子旁边去，”杰姆说。 “我们昨天在街对面找过了，有个百叶窗松了。我想至少我可以把它粘在窗台上。”“杰姆——”“现在你钻进去出不来了，就待在里面吧，普丽丝小姐！”“好吧，好吧，但我不想看。杰姆，有人——”“你负责，你负责看守后院，迪尔负责看守房子的前面和街上，如果有人来，她就按门铃。明白了吗？”“好的。你写了什么信给他？”迪尔说：“我们很有礼貌地请他偶尔出来，告诉我们他在里面干什么——我们说过不会伤害他，还会给他买冰淇淋。”“你们都疯了，他会杀了我们的！”迪尔说：“这是我的主意。我想如果他出来和我们坐一会儿，他可能会觉得……”好些了。”“你怎么知道他不舒服？”“好吧，如果你被关了一百年，除了猫什么都不吃，你会有什么感觉？我敢打赌他到这儿来肯定留着胡子——”“像你爸爸那样？”“他没有胡子，他——”迪尔停了下来，好像在努力回忆。
　　"Uh huh, caughtcha," I said. "You said 'fore you were off thetrain good your daddy had a black beard-""If it's all the same to you he shaved it off last summer! Yeah, an'
“嗯哼，我懂了，”我说。“你下火车之前还说你爸爸留着黑胡子——”“要是没事的话，他去年夏天就剃光了！是啊，还有……”
　　I've got the letter to prove it- he sent me two dollars, too!""Keep on- I reckon he even sent you a mounted police uniform! That'nnever showed up, did it? You just keep on tellin' 'em, son-"Dill Harris could tell the biggest ones I ever heard. Among otherthings, he had been up in a mail plane seventeen times, he had been toNova Scotia, he had seen an elephant, and his granddaddy was BrigadierGeneral Joe Wheeler and left him his sword.
我有信可以证明——他还寄给我两美元！”“等等——我估计他还给你寄了一套骑警服！那东西从来没出现过，对吧？儿子，你就一直跟他们说——”迪尔·哈里斯能说出我听过的最精彩的故事。除此之外，他还说过，他坐过十七次邮政飞机，去过新斯科舍，见过大象，他的祖父是乔·惠勒准将，还给他留下了宝剑。
　　"You all hush," said Jem. He scuttled beneath the house and came outwith a yellow bamboo pole. "Reckon this is long enough to reach fromthe sidewalk?""Anybody who's brave enough to go up and touch the house hadn'toughta use a fishin' pole," I said. "Why don't you just knock thefront door down?""This- is- different," said Jem, "how many times do I have to tellyou that?"Dill took a piece of paper from his pocket and gave it to Jem. Thethree of us walked cautiously toward the old house. Dill remained atthe light-pole on the front corner of the lot, and Jem and I edgeddown the sidewalk parallel to the side of the house. I walked beyondJem and stood where I could see around the curve.
“你们都安静点，”杰姆说。他飞快地跑到房子下面，拿着一根黄色的竹竿出来。“你觉得这条竹竿够长，能从人行道伸到那里吗？”“胆敢上去碰房子的人，肯定没想过用鱼竿，”我说。“你们干嘛不直接把前门敲掉？”“这——不一样，”杰姆说，“我得跟你说过多少遍才行？”迪尔从口袋里掏出一张纸递给杰姆。我们三个小心翼翼地朝老房子走去。迪尔站在地块前角的灯杆旁，我和杰姆则沿着与房子侧面平行的人行道往下走。我走到杰姆身旁，站在能看到拐弯处的地方。
　　"All clear," I said. "Not a soul in sight."Jem looked up the sidewalk to Dill, who nodded.
“一切安全，”我说，“一个人也没有。”杰姆抬头看着人行道上的迪尔，迪尔点了点头。
　　Jem attached the note to the end of the fishing pole, let the poleout across the yard and pushed it toward the window he had selected.
杰姆把纸条系在钓鱼竿的一端，把竿子穿过院子，朝他选定的窗户推去。
　　The pole lacked several inches of being long enough, and Jem leanedover as far as he could. I watched him making jabbing motions for solong, I abandoned my post and went to him.
杆子短了几英寸，杰姆尽力地探身过去。我看着他戳刺的动作看了好一会儿，才放下手，朝他走去。
　　"Can't get it off the pole," he muttered, "or if I got it off Ican't make it stay. G'on back down the street, Scout."I returned and gazed around the curve at the empty road.
“没法把它从杆子上拿下来，”他嘟囔道，“或者说，就算我把它拿下来了，也没法让它留在那儿。斯库特，沿着街道走回去吧。”我转过身，环顾着拐弯处空荡荡的道路。
　　Occasionally I looked back at Jem, who was patiently trying to placethe note on the window sill. It would flutter to the ground and Jemwould jab it up, until I thought if Boo Radley ever received it hewouldn't be able to read it. I was looking down the street when thedinner-bell rang.
我偶尔会回头看看杰姆，他正耐心地把纸条放在窗台上。纸条飘落到地上，杰姆又会把它戳起来，直到我心想，就算怪人拉德利真的收到了，他也不会读懂。我正望着街上，这时晚餐铃响了。
　　Shoulder up, I reeled around to face Boo Radley and his bloodyfangs; instead, I saw Dill ringing the bell with all his might inAtticus's face.
我耸起肩膀，踉跄地转过身去面对布·拉德利和他那满是血迹的尖牙；然而，我看到迪尔正对着阿蒂克斯的脸用尽全力摇响铃铛。
　　Jem looked so awful I didn't have the heart to tell him I told himso. He trudged along, dragging the pole behind him on the sidewalk.
杰姆的脸色太难看了，我不忍心告诉他是我告诉他的。他拖着沉重的脚步，在人行道上拖着杆子。
　　Atticus said, "Stop ringing that bell."Dill grabbed the clapper; in the silence that followed, I wishedhe'd start ringing it again. Atticus pushed his hat to the back of hishead and put his hands on his hips. "Jem," he said, "what were youdoing?""Nothin', sir.""I don't want any of that. Tell me.""I was- we were just tryin' to give somethin' to Mr. Radley.""What were you trying to give him?""Just a letter.""Let me see it."Jem held out a filthy piece of paper. Atticus took it and tried toread it. "Why do you want Mr. Radley to come out?"Dill said, "We thought he might enjoy us…" and dried up whenAtticus looked at him.
阿蒂克斯说：“别摇铃了。”迪尔一把抓住铃铛；接下来的沉默里，我真希望他再摇一次。阿蒂克斯把帽子往后推了推，双手叉腰。“杰姆，”他说，“你刚才在干什么？”“没什么，先生。”“我什么都不要。告诉我。”“我——我们只是想给拉德利先生送点东西。”“你想送他什么？”“只是一封信。”“让我看看。”杰姆递过来一张脏兮兮的纸。阿蒂克斯接过来，试着读了读。“你为什么想让拉德利先生出来？”迪尔说：“我们以为他会喜欢我们……”阿蒂克斯一看他，迪尔就哑口无言了。
　　"Son," he said to Jem, "I'm going to tell you something and tell youone time: stop tormenting that man. That goes for the other two ofyou."What Mr. Radley did was his own business. If he wanted to comeout, he would. If he wanted to stay inside his own house he had theright to stay inside free from the attentions of inquisitive children,which was a mild term for the likes of us. How would we like it ifAtticus barged in on us without knocking, when we were in our rooms atnight? We were, in effect, doing the same thing to Mr. Radley. WhatMr. Radley did might seem peculiar to us, but it did not seem peculiarto him. Furthermore, had it never occurred to us that the civil way tocommunicate with another being was by the front door instead of a sidewindow? Lastly, we were to stay away from that house until we wereinvited there, we were not to play an asinine game he had seen usplaying or make fun of anybody on this street or in this town-"We weren't makin' fun of him, we weren't laughin' at him," saidJem, "we were just-""So that was what you were doing, wasn't it?""Makin' fun of him?""No," said Atticus, "putting his life's history on display for theedification of the neighborhood."Jem seemed to swell a little. "I didn't say we were doin' that, Ididn't say it!"Atticus grinned dryly. "You just told me," he said. "You stop thisnonsense right now, every one of you."Jem gaped at him.
“儿子，”他对杰姆说，“我要告诉你一件事，只告诉你一次：别再折磨那个人了。你们另外两个人也一样。”拉德利先生做什么是他自己的事。他想出来，就出来。如果他想待在自己的房子里，他有权待在里面，不受那些好奇孩子的打扰——对我们这种人来说，这不过是个轻描淡写的说法。如果晚上我们在房间里，阿蒂克斯不敲门就闯进来，我们会怎么想？实际上，我们也是在对拉德利先生做同样的事情。拉德利先生的所作所为在我们看来可能很奇怪，但在他看来却并不奇怪。再说，难道我们从来没有想过，与他人沟通的礼貌方式是通过前门，而不是侧窗吗？最后，在被邀请之前，我们得离那栋房子远点，不许玩他看到我们玩的那种愚蠢的游戏，也不许取笑这条街上或这个镇上的任何人——“我们没有取笑他，也没有嘲笑他，”杰姆说，“我们只是——”“所以这就是你们做的，对吧？”“取笑他？”“不，”阿蒂克斯说，“把他的人生经历公之于众，用来教化邻里。”杰姆似乎有点得意起来。“我没说我们这么做，我没这么说！”阿蒂克斯干巴巴地笑了笑。“你刚才告诉我了，”他说。“你们现在就别胡闹了，每个人都别再胡闹了。”杰姆目瞪口呆地看着他。
　　"You want to be a lawyer, don't you?" Our father's mouth wassuspiciously firm, as if he were trying to hold it in line.
“你想当律师，对吧？”父亲的嘴角带着怀疑的坚定，仿佛在竭力控制自己。
　　Jem decided there was no point in quibbling, and was silent. WhenAtticus went inside the house to retrieve a file he had forgotten totake to work that morning, Jem finally realized that he had beendone in by the oldest lawyer's trick on record. He waited a respectfuldistance from the front steps, watched Atticus leave the house andwalk toward town. When Atticus was out of earshot Jem yelled afterhim: "I thought I wanted to be a lawyer but I ain't so sure now!"6"Yes," said our father, when Jem asked him if we could go over andsit by Miss Rachel's fishpool with Dill, as this was his last night inMaycomb. "Tell him so long for me, and we'll see him next summer."We leaped over the low wall that separated Miss Rachel's yard fromour driveway. Jem whistled bob-white and Dill answered in thedarkness.
杰姆觉得争论毫无意义，便沉默了。阿蒂克斯进屋取早上忘了带去上班的文件时，杰姆终于意识到自己被有史以来最老的律师伎俩耍了。他站在离门台阶稍远的地方，看着阿蒂克斯离开房子，朝镇上走去。等阿蒂克斯走远了，杰姆在他身后喊道：“我本来想当律师，但现在不太确定了！”6 “好的，”杰姆问父亲我们能不能和迪尔一起去雷切尔小姐的鱼池边坐坐，因为这是他在梅科姆的最后一晚。“跟他说再见吧，明年夏天我们再见。”我们翻过了隔开雷切尔小姐院子和我们车道的矮墙。杰姆吹了声白腹灰雀的口哨，迪尔在黑暗中回应道。
　　"Not a breath blowing," said Jem. "Looka yonder."He pointed to the east. A gigantic moon was rising behind MissMaudie's pecan trees. "That makes it seem hotter," he said.
“一点儿风都没有，”杰姆说。“看那边。”他指着东方。一轮巨大的月亮正从莫迪小姐家的山核桃树后升起。“这让天气看起来更热了，”他说。
　　"Cross in it tonight?" asked Dill, not looking up. He wasconstructing a cigarette from newspaper and string.
“今晚过得怎么样？”迪尔头也不抬地问。他正用报纸和绳子做香烟。
　　"No, just the lady. Don't light that thing, Dill, you'll stink upthis whole end of town."There was a lady in the moon in Maycomb. She sat at a dressercombing her hair.
“不，只是那位女士。别点那玩意儿，迪尔，你会把整座镇子都弄臭的。”梅科姆的月亮里有一位女士。她坐在梳妆台前梳头。
　　"We're gonna miss you, boy," I said. "Reckon we better watch for Mr.
“我们会想你的，孩子，”我说，“看来我们得小心点，别让先生跑了。”
　　Avery?"Mr. Avery boarded across the street from Mrs. Henry LafayetteDubose's house. Besides making change in the collection plate everySunday, Mr. Avery sat on the porch every night until nine o'clockand sneezed. One evening we were privileged to witness a performanceby him which seemed to have been his positively last, for he never didit again so long as we watched. Jem and I were leaving Miss Rachel'sfront steps one night when Dill stopped us: "Golly, looka yonder."He pointed across the street. At first we saw nothing but akudzu-covered front porch, but a closer inspection revealed an arcof water descending from the leaves and splashing in the yellow circleof the street light, some ten feet from source to earth, it seemedto us. Jem said Mr. Avery misfigured, Dill said he must drink a gallona day, and the ensuing contest to determine relative distances andrespective prowess only made me feel left out again, as I wasuntalented in this area.
“艾弗里先生？”艾弗里先生住在亨利·拉法耶特·杜博斯太太家对面的街上。除了每个星期天往募捐盘里找零之外，艾弗里先生每天晚上都坐在门廊上直到晚上九点，打喷嚏。一天晚上，我们有幸目睹了他的一场表演，这似乎是他最后一次表演了，因为只要我们继续观看，他就再也没有表演过。一天晚上，我和杰姆正要离开雷切尔小姐家的门廊，迪尔拦住了我们：“天哪，看那边。”他指着街对面。起初，我们只看到覆盖着葛藤的前廊，但仔细一看，发现一道水弧从树叶间倾泻而下，溅落在路灯的黄色光圈里，在我们看来，水源到地面大约有十英尺远。杰姆说艾弗里先生算错了，迪尔说他每天得喝一加仑酒。接下来的比赛，看谁的相对距离和实力，只会让我再次感到被冷落，因为我在这方面缺乏天赋。
　　Dill stretched, yawned, and said altogether too casually. "I knowwhat, let's go for a walk."He sounded fishy to me. Nobody in Maycomb just went for a walk.
迪尔伸了个懒腰，打了个哈欠，然后漫不经心地说：“我知道了，我们去散散步吧。”他的话听起来很可疑。梅科姆镇没人会随便出去散步。
　　"Where to, Dill?"Dill jerked his head in a southerly direction.
“去哪儿，迪尔？”迪尔猛地把头转向南方。
　　Jem said, "Okay." When I protested, he said sweetly, "You don't haveto come along, Angel May.""You don't have to go. Remember-"Jem was not one to dwell on past defeats: it seemed the only messagehe got from Atticus was insight into the art of cross examination.
杰姆说：“好的。”我抗议时，他甜甜地说：“你不用跟来，安琪儿·梅。”“你不用去。记住——”杰姆不是那种沉湎于过去失败的人：他从阿蒂克斯那里得到的唯一信息似乎就是对盘问艺术的洞见。
　　"Scout, we ain't gonna do anything, we're just goin' to the streetlight and back."We strolled silently down the sidewalk, listening to porch swingscreaking with the weight of the neighborhood, listening to the softnight-murmurs of the grown people on our street. Occasionally we heardMiss Stephanie Crawford laugh.
“斯库特，我们什么也不做，就走到路灯那里再回来。”我们默默地沿着人行道漫步，听着门廊的秋千被街区的重物压得嘎吱作响，听着街上成年人夜晚的低语。偶尔，我们还能听到斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐的笑声。
　　"Well?" said Dill.
“怎么样？”迪尔问。
　　"Okay," said Jem. "Why don't you go on home, Scout?""What are you gonna do?"Dill and Jem were simply going to peep in the window with theloose shutter to see if they could get a look at Boo Radley, and ifI didn't want to go with them I could go straight home and keep my fatflopping mouth shut, that was all.
“好吧，”杰姆说，“斯库特，你为什么不回家呢？”“你打算怎么办？”迪尔和杰姆只是想从松动的百叶窗往里偷看，看看能不能看到怪人拉德利。如果我不想跟他们一起去，我就直接回家，闭上我那张肥嘟嘟的嘴，仅此而已。
　　"But what in the sam holy hill did you wait till tonight?"Because nobody could see them at night, because Atticus would beso deep in a book he wouldn't hear the Kingdom coming, because ifBoo Radley killed them they'd miss school instead of vacation, andbecause it was easier to see inside a dark house in the dark than inthe daytime, did I understand?
“可是你今晚到底在等什么呢？”因为晚上没人能看见他们，因为阿蒂克斯会沉浸在书中而听不到王国的到来，因为如果布·拉德利杀了他们，他们就会错过学校而不是假期，还因为在黑暗中看清一间黑房子里的东西比在白天更容易，我明白了吗？
　　"Jem, please-""Scout, I'm tellin' you for the last time, shut your trap or gohome- I declare to the Lord you're gettin' more like a girl everyday!"With that, I had no option but to join them. We thought it wasbetter to go under the high wire fence at the rear of the Radleylot, we stood less chance of being seen. The fence enclosed a largegarden and a narrow wooden outhouse.
“杰姆，求你了——”“斯库特，我最后再告诉你一遍，闭上你的嘴，不然就回家——我向上帝发誓，你一天比一天更像个女孩了！”我别无选择，只能加入他们。我们觉得最好从拉德利庄园后面的高铁丝网下钻过去，这样被发现的几率更小。铁丝网围着一个大花园和一间狭窄的木制户外厕所。
　　Jem held up the bottom wire and motioned Dill under it. Ifollowed, and held up the wire for Jem. It was a tight squeeze forhim. "Don't make a sound," he whispered. "Don't get in a row ofcollards whatever you do, they'll wake the dead."With this thought in mind, I made perhaps one step per minute. Imoved faster when I saw Jem far ahead beckoning in the moonlight. Wecame to the gate that divided the garden from the back yard. Jemtouched it. The gate squeaked.
杰姆举起最下面的铁丝网，示意迪尔从下面钻过去。我跟上去，也帮杰姆举起铁丝网。铁丝网对他来说很紧。“别出声，”他低声说。“不管你做什么，都别挡着一排羽衣甘蓝，它们会吵醒死人的。”我心里想着，大概每分钟迈一步。当我看到杰姆在月光下远远地向我招手时，我加快了脚步。我们来到了分隔花园和后院的大门前。杰姆摸了摸门。门吱呀一声响。
　　"Spit on it," whispered Dill.
“朝它吐口水，”迪尔低声说。
　　"You've got us in a box, Jem," I muttered. "We can't get out of hereso easy.""Sh-h. Spit on it, Scout."We spat ourselves dry, and Jem opened the gate slowly, lifting itaside and resting it on the fence. We were in the back yard.
“杰姆，你把我们困在盒子里了，”我咕哝道，“我们没法轻易离开这里。”“嘘！吐口水，斯库特。”我们把口水吐干，杰姆慢慢地打开大门，把它掀到一边，靠在篱笆上。我们来到了后院。
　　The back of the Radley house was less inviting than the front: aramshackle porch ran the width of the house; there were two doorsand two dark windows between the doors. Instead of a column, a roughtwo-by-four supported one end of the roof. An old Franklin stove satin a corner of the porch; above it a hat-rack mirror caught the moonand shone eerily.
拉德利家的后院不如前院那么吸引人：摇摇欲坠的门廊贯穿了整个房子；门与门之间有两扇黑漆漆的窗户。屋顶的一端没有柱子，而是被一根粗糙的二乘四木板支撑着。门廊的一角摆放着一个老旧的富兰克林炉；炉子上方，衣帽架上的镜子映着月光，闪着诡异的光芒。
　　"Ar-r," said Jem softly, lifting his foot. ...
　　"'Smatter?""Chickens," he breathed.
“‘Smatter’？” “鸡，”他喘着气说。
　　That we would be obliged to dodge the unseen from all directions wasconfirmed when Dill ahead of us spelled G-o-d in a whisper. We creptto the side of the house, around to the window with the hangingshutter. The sill was several inches taller than Jem.
前面的迪尔低声念着“上帝”这个词，这才确认了我们不得不躲避来自四面八方的看不见的东西。我们蹑手蹑脚地走到房子的侧面，绕到挂着百叶窗的窗户边。窗台比杰姆还高几英寸。
　　"Give you a hand up," he muttered to Dill. "Wait, though." Jemgrabbed his left wrist and my right wrist, I grabbed my left wrist andJem's right wrist, we crouched, and Dill sat on our saddle. Weraised him and he caught the window sill.
“帮你一把，”他低声对迪尔说。“不过，等等。”杰姆抓住他的左手腕和我的右手腕，我抓住我的左手腕和杰姆的右手腕，我们蹲下，迪尔坐在我们的马鞍上。我们把他扶起来，他抓住了窗台。
　　"Hurry," Jem whispered, "we can't last much longer."Dill punched my shoulder, and we lowered him to the ground.
“快点，”杰姆低声说，“我们坚持不了多久了。”迪尔用力捶了一下我的肩膀，然后我们把他放倒在地。
　　"What'd you see?""Nothing. Curtains. There's a little teeny light way offsomewhere, though.""Let's get away from here," breathed Jem. "Let's go 'round in backagain. Sh-h," he warned me, as I was about to protest.
“你看到什么了？”“什么也没看到。窗帘。不过，远处好像有一点光亮。”“我们走吧，”杰姆喘着气说。“我们绕到后面去吧。嘘，”我正要抗议，他警告我。
　　"Let's try the back window.""Dill, no," I said.
“我们试试后窗吧。”“迪尔，不，”我说。
　　Dill stopped and let Jem go ahead. When Jem put his foot on thebottom step, the step squeaked. He stood still, then tried hisweight by degrees. The step was silent. Jem skipped two steps, put hisfoot on the porch, heaved himself to it, and teetered a long moment.
迪尔停下脚步，让杰姆先走。杰姆一脚踩到最底层的台阶，台阶发出吱吱的响声。他站定，然后慢慢地尝试着自己的重量。台阶没有发出任何声响。杰姆跳过两级台阶，把脚踩到门廊上，用力地挪了过去，摇摇晃晃地踉跄了好一会儿。
　　He regained his balance and dropped to his knees. He crawled to thewindow, raised his head and looked in.
他恢复平衡，跪了下来。他爬到窗边，抬起头往里看。
　　Then I saw the shadow. It was the shadow of a man with a hat on.
然后我看到了那个影子。那是一个戴着帽子的男人的影子。
　　At first I thought it was a tree, but there was no wind blowing, andtree-trunks never walked. The back porch was bathed in moonlight,and the shadow, crisp as toast, moved across the porch toward Jem.
一开始我以为那是一棵树，但当时没有风，树干也从来不会动。后门廊沐浴在月光下，那影子像烤面包一样脆，穿过门廊，朝杰姆望去。
　　Dill saw it next. He put his hands to his face.
迪尔接着看到了。他用手捂住了脸。
　　When it crossed Jem, Jem saw it. He put his arms over his head andwent rigid.
当它从杰姆身边经过时，杰姆看见了它。他双手抱头，僵住了。
　　The shadow stopped about a foot beyond Jem. Its arm came out fromits side, dropped, and was still. Then it turned and moved back acrossJem, walked along the porch and off the side of the house, returningas it had come.
黑影在杰姆身后一英尺处停了下来。它的手臂从身侧伸出，垂下，一动不动。然后它转身，穿过杰姆，沿着门廊走去，走出房子的一侧，又回到了它来时的路。
　　Jem leaped off the porch and galloped toward us. He flung open thegate, danced Dill and me through, and shooed us between two rows ofswishing collards. Halfway through the collards I tripped; as Itripped the roar of a shotgun shattered the neighborhood.
杰姆从门廊跳下来，朝我们飞奔过来。他猛地打开大门，带着我和迪尔跳了过去，把我们赶到两排沙沙作响的羽衣甘蓝中间。我走到一半时被绊倒了；就在这时，一声猎枪的轰鸣震碎了整个街区。
　　Dill and Jem dived beside me. Jem's breath came in sobs: "Fence bythe schoolyard!- hurry, Scout!"Jem held the bottom wire; Dill and I rolled through and were halfwayto the shelter of the schoolyard's solitary oak when we sensed thatJem was not with us. We ran back and found him struggling in thefence, kicking his pants off to get loose. He ran to the oak tree inhis shorts.
迪尔和杰姆扑到我身旁。杰姆的呼吸都带上了呜咽：“校园边上的篱笆！——快点，斯库特！”杰姆抓着最下面的铁丝网；迪尔和我滚了过去，正走到校园里那棵孤零零的橡树下躲避的时候，我们感觉到杰姆没跟我们在一起。我们跑回去，发现他在篱笆里挣扎，踢掉裤子想挣脱。他穿着短裤跑向橡树。
　　Safely behind it, we gave way to numbness, but Jem's mind wasracing: "We gotta get home, they'll miss us."We ran across the schoolyard, crawled under the fence to Deer'sPasture behind our house, climbed our back fence and were at theback steps before Jem would let us pause to rest.
安全地躲过之后，我们感到一阵麻木，但杰姆的脑子里却在飞速运转：“我们得回家，他们会想念我们的。”我们跑过校园，从篱笆下爬到屋后的鹿牧场，又爬过后篱笆，来到后门台阶上，杰姆才让我们停下来休息。
　　Respiration normal, the three of us strolled as casually as we couldto the front yard. We looked down the street and saw a circle ofneighbors at the Radley front gate.
我们三人呼吸正常，尽量轻松地走到前院。我们望向街道，看到雷德利家门口围了一圈邻居。
　　"We better go down there," said Jem. "They'll think it's funny if wedon't show up."Mr. Nathan Radley was standing inside his gate, a shotgun brokenacross his arm. Atticus was standing beside Miss Maudie and MissStephanie Crawford. Miss Rachel and Mr. Avery were near by. None ofthem saw us come up.
“我们最好下去，”杰姆说，“如果我们不出现，他们会觉得很奇怪。”内森·拉德利先生站在自家大门内，胳膊上挎着一把断掉的猎枪。阿蒂克斯站在莫迪小姐和斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐旁边。雷切尔小姐和艾弗里先生就在附近。他们都没看到我们上来。
　　We eased in beside Miss Maudie, who looked around. "Where were youall, didn't you hear the commotion?""What happened?" asked Jem.
我们轻轻地走到莫迪小姐身边，她环顾四周。“你们在哪儿？没听到动静吗？”“发生什么事了？”杰姆问。
　　"Mr. Radley shot at a Negro in his collard patch.""Oh. Did he hit him?""No," said Miss Stephanie. "Shot in the air. Scared him pale,though. Says if anybody sees a white nigger around, that's the one.
“拉德利先生朝一个在芥菜地里的黑人开枪了。”“哦。他打中他了吗？”“没有，”斯蒂芬妮小姐说。“朝天开了一枪。不过把他吓得脸色苍白。据说如果有人在附近看到白种黑鬼，那就是他了。”
　　Says he's got the other barrel waitin' for the next sound he hearsin that patch, an' next time he won't aim high, be it dog, nigger, or-Jem Finch!""Ma'am?" asked Jem.
他说他已经准备好另一支枪，等待着那片区域内听到的下一个声音，下次他不会瞄准太高的地方，无论是狗、黑鬼，还是——杰姆·芬奇！”“夫人？”杰姆问道。
　　Atticus spoke. "Where're your pants, son?""Pants, sir?""Pants."It was no use. In his shorts before God and everybody. I sighed.
阿蒂克斯开口道：“儿子，你的裤子呢？”“裤子，先生？”“裤子。”没用。在上帝和所有人面前，他只穿着短裤。我叹了口气。
　　"Ah- Mr. Finch?"In the glare from the streetlight, I could see Dill hatching one:
“啊——芬奇先生？”借着路灯的亮光，我看到迪尔正在琢磨一个问题：
　　his eyes widened, his fat cherub face grew rounder.
他的眼睛睁大了，胖胖的天使脸变得更圆了。
　　"What is it, Dill?" asked Atticus.
“什么事，迪尔？”阿蒂克斯问。
　　"Ah- I won 'em from him," he said vaguely. ...
　　"Won them? How?"Dill's hand sought the back of his head. He brought it forward andacross his forehead. "We were playin' strip poker up yonder by thefishpool," he said.
“赢了他们？怎么赢的？”迪尔的手摸到他的后脑勺。他把手伸到前额上。“我们在那边的鱼塘边玩脱衣扑克呢，”他说。
　　Jem and I relaxed. The neighbors seemed satisfied: they allstiffened. But what was strip poker?
我和杰姆放松了下来。邻居们似乎很满意：他们都绷紧了身子。可是，脱衣扑克是什么玩意儿？
　　We had no chance to find out: Miss Rachel went off like the townfire siren: "Do-o-o Jee-sus, Dill Harris! Gamblin' by my fishpool?
我们根本没机会发现：雷切尔小姐就像城镇火灾警报器一样响了起来：“老天爷，迪尔·哈里斯！在我的鱼池边赌博吗？
　　I'll strip-poker you, sir!"Atticus saved Dill from immediate dismemberment. "Just a minute,Miss Rachel," he said. "I've never heard of 'em doing that before.
我要和你玩脱衣扑克，先生！”阿蒂克斯救了迪尔，使他免于被立即肢解。“等一下，雷切尔小姐，”他说。“我以前从未听说过他们这样做。
　　Were you all playing cards?"Jem fielded Dill's fly with his eyes shut: "No sir, just withmatches."I admired my brother. Matches were dangerous, but cards were fatal.
你们都在玩牌吗？"杰姆闭着眼睛接住了迪尔的飞球：“没有，先生，只是用火柴。”我佩服我的兄弟。火柴很危险，但牌却致命。
　　"Jem, Scout," said Atticus, "I don't want to hear of poker in anyform again. Go by Dill's and get your pants, Jem. Settle ityourselves.""Don't worry, Dill," said Jem, as we trotted up the sidewalk, "sheain't gonna get you. He'll talk her out of it. That was fast thinkin',son. Listen… you hear?"We stopped, and heard Atticus's voice: "…not serious… they allgo through it, Miss Rachel…"Dill was comforted, but Jem and I weren't. There was the problemof Jem showing up some pants in the morning.
“杰姆，斯库特，”阿蒂克斯说，“我不想再听到任何形式的扑克牌。去迪尔家拿你的裤子，杰姆。你们自己解决吧。”“别担心，迪尔，”杰姆说着，我们沿着人行道小跑，“她不会抓你的。他会劝她打消这个念头的。儿子，你脑子转得真快。听着……你听见了吗？”我们停了下来，听到阿蒂克斯的声音：“……没那么严重……他们都经历过这种事，雷切尔小姐……”迪尔感到安慰，但我和杰姆却没有。问题是杰姆明天早上会把裤子拿出来。
　　"'d give you some of mine," said Dill, as we came to Miss Rachel'ssteps. Jem said he couldn't get in them, but thanks anyway. We saidgood-bye, and Dill went inside the house. He evidently remembered hewas engaged to me, for he ran back out and kissed me swiftly infront of Jem. "Yawl write, hear?" he bawled after us.
“我会给你一些我的，”迪尔说，这时我们来到了雷切尔小姐家门口。杰姆说他进不去，不过还是谢谢了。我们道了别，迪尔进了屋。他显然记得他已经和我订婚了，因为他跑了出来，当着杰姆的面飞快地吻了我。“写字，听见了吗？”他在我们身后大声喊道。
　　Had Jem's pants been safely on him, we would not have slept muchanyway. Every night-sound I heard from my cot on the back porch wasmagnified three-fold; every scratch of feet on gravel was Boo Radleyseeking revenge, every passing Negro laughing in the night was BooRadley loose and after us; insects splashing against the screen wereBoo Radley's insane fingers picking the wire to pieces; the chinaberrytrees were malignant, hovering, alive. I lingered between sleep andwakefulness until I heard Jem murmur.
要是杰姆的裤子没穿错，我们反正也睡不着。我从后门廊的帆布床上听到的每一个夜里的声音都被放大了三倍；脚步声在碎石上发出的每一声刮擦都是布·拉德利在寻仇；夜里路过的每一个黑人的笑声都是布·拉德利在逍遥法外追杀我们；昆虫拍打纱窗的声音是布·拉德利疯狂的手指在把铁丝网撕成碎片的声音；楝树是凶恶的，盘旋着，活生生的。我半梦半醒，直到听到杰姆低声说了一句。
　　"Sleep, Little Three-Eyes?""Are you crazy?""Sh-h. Atticus's light's out."In the waning moonlight I saw Jem swing his feet to the floor.
“睡吧，小三眼？”“你疯了吗？”“嘘。阿蒂克斯家的灯灭了。”借着渐渐暗淡的月光，我看见杰姆把脚甩到地板上。
　　"I'm goin' after 'em," he said. ...
　　I sat upright. "You can't. I won't let you."He was struggling into his shirt. "I've got to.""You do an' I'll wake up Atticus.""You do and I'll kill you."I pulled him down beside me on the cot. I tried to reason withhim. "Mr. Nathan's gonna find 'em in the morning, Jem. He knows youlost 'em. When he shows 'em to Atticus it'll be pretty bad, that's allthere is to it. Go'n back to bed.""That's what I know," said Jem. "That's why I'm goin' after 'em."I began to feel sick. Going back to that place by himself- Iremembered Miss Stephanie: Mr. Nathan had the other barrel waiting forthe next sound he heard, be it nigger, dog… Jem knew that betterthan I.
我坐直了身子。“你不能。我不会让你的。”他费力地穿衬衫。“我必须这么做。”“你敢叫醒阿蒂克斯。”“你敢，我就杀了你。”我把他拉到我身旁的小床上。我试图跟他讲道理。“杰姆，内森先生明天早上会找到它们的。他知道你把它们弄丢了。等他把它们拿给阿蒂克斯看，情况就糟了，就是这样。回去睡觉吧。”“我知道的就是这些，”杰姆说。“所以我才去找它们。”我开始感到恶心。独自一人回到那个地方——我想起了斯蒂芬妮小姐：内森先生拿着另一个桶，等着他听到的下一个声音，不管是黑鬼，还是狗……杰姆比我更清楚这一点。
　　I was desperate: "Look, it ain't worth it, Jem. A lickin' hurtsbut it doesn't last. You'll get your head shot off, Jem. Please…"He blew out his breath patiently. "I- it's like this, Scout," hemuttered. "Atticus ain't ever whipped me since I can remember. I wantakeep it that way."This was a thought. It seemed that Atticus threatened us every otherday. "You mean he's never caught you at anything.""Maybe so, but- I just wanta keep it that way, Scout. We shouldn'adone that tonight, Scout."It was then, I suppose, that Jem and I first began to partcompany. Sometimes I did not understand him, but my periods ofbewilderment were short-lived. This was beyond me. "Please," Ipleaded, "can'tcha just think about it for a minute- by yourself onthat place-""Shut up!""It's not like he'd never speak to you again or somethin'… I'mgonna wake him up, Jem, I swear I am-"Jem grabbed my pajama collar and wrenched it tight. "Then I'mgoin' with you-" I choked.
我绝望了：“听着，杰姆，这不值得。挨一顿打很疼，但不会持久。你会被打爆头的，杰姆。求你了……”他耐心地呼出一口气。“我——就像这样，斯库特，”他低声说道。“从我记事起，阿蒂克斯就没打过我。我想保持这种状态。”我心里这么想。阿蒂克斯好像每隔一天就威胁我们一次。“你是说他从来没抓到你做过什么事？”“也许是吧，但——我只是想保持这种状态，斯库特。今晚我们不应该那样做，斯库特。”我想，就是从那时开始，我和杰姆开始分道扬镳了。有时我不明白他的意思，但我的困惑期很短暂。这件事我完全无法理解。 “求你了，”我恳求道，“你就不能想一想吗——一个人在那种地方——”“闭嘴！”“他又不是再也不会跟你说话之类的……我要叫醒他，杰姆，我发誓我要——”杰姆抓住我的睡衣领子，紧紧地拽住。“那我就跟你走——”我哽咽了。
　　"No you ain't, you'll just make noise."It was no use. I unlatched the back door and held it while hecrept down the steps. It must have been two o'clock. The moon wassetting and the lattice-work shadows were fading into fuzzynothingness. Jem's white shirt-tail dipped and bobbed like a smallghost dancing away to escape the coming morning. A faint breezestirred and cooled the sweat running down my sides.
“不，你不会的，你只会制造噪音。”没用。我打开后门闩，扶着它，他蹑手蹑脚地走下台阶。当时肯定是两点钟了。月亮正在下山，格子间的影子渐渐模糊，化为虚无。杰姆的白衬衫下摆像个小幽灵一样上下摆动，想要躲避即将到来的清晨。一阵微风吹过，凉快了顺着我身体两侧流下的汗水。
　　He went the back way, through Deer's Pasture, across theschoolyard and around to the fence, I thought- at least that was theway he was headed. It would take longer, so it was not time to worryyet. I waited until it was time to worry and listened for Mr. Radley'sshotgun. Then I thought I heard the back fence squeak. It waswishful thinking.
他走了后门，穿过鹿牧场，穿过校园，绕到篱笆那里，我想——至少他是朝那个方向走的。要花更长的时间，所以现在还不是担心的时候。我一直等到该担心的时候，才听见拉德利先生的猎枪声。然后我好像听到后篱笆吱吱作响。这只是我的一厢情愿。
　　Then I heard Atticus cough. I held my breath. Sometimes when we madea midnight pilgrimage to the bathroom we would find him reading. Hesaid he often woke up during the night, checked on us, and readhimself back to sleep. I waited for his light to go on, straining myeyes to see it flood the hall. It stayed off, and I breathed again.
然后我听到阿蒂克斯咳嗽。我屏住呼吸。有时我们半夜去洗手间，会发现他在看书。他说他经常半夜醒来，看看我们，然后自己再看书睡着。我等着他的灯亮起来，努力地看着灯光洒满走廊。灯一直关着，我又能呼吸了。
　　The night-crawlers had retired, but ripe chinaberries drummed on theroof when the wind stirred, and the darkness was desolate with thebarking of distant dogs.
夜行动物已经退场，但风一吹，成熟的楝子就敲打着屋顶，远处传来狗吠声，黑暗中一片荒凉。
　　There he was, returning to me. His white shirt bobbed over theback fence and slowly grew larger. He came up the back steps,latched the door behind him, and sat on his cot. Wordlessly, he heldup his pants. He lay down, and for a while I heard his cottrembling. Soon he was still. I did not hear him stir again.
他回来了，回到我身边。他的白衬衫在后院篱笆上飘动，慢慢变大。他走上后台阶，闩上身后的门，坐在帆布床上。他一言不发地撩起裤子。他躺下，有一会儿，我听到他颤抖的声音。很快他就安静下来了。我再也没听到他动静。
　　7Jem stayed moody and silent for a week. As Atticus had onceadvised me to do, I tried to climb into Jem's skin and walk aroundin it: if I had gone alone to the Radley Place at two in themorning, my funeral would have been held the next afternoon. So I leftJem alone and tried not to bother him.
7杰姆整整一个星期都闷闷不乐，沉默不语。就像阿蒂克斯曾经建议我的那样，我试着扮演杰姆的角色，装作他的样子：如果我凌晨两点独自去拉德利家，我的葬礼就会在第二天下午举行。所以我把杰姆一个人留在那里，尽量不去打扰他。
　　School started. The second grade was as bad as the first, onlyworse- they still flashed cards at you and wouldn't let you read orwrite. Miss Caroline's progress next door could be estimated by thefrequency of laughter; however, the usual crew had flunked the firstgrade again, and were helpful in keeping order. The only thing goodabout the second grade was that this year I had to stay as late asJem, and we usually walked home together at three o'clock.
开学了。二年级和一年级一样糟糕，甚至更糟——他们仍然会给你看卡片，不让你读书写字。隔壁卡罗琳小姐的进步可以通过她笑声的频率来判断；不过，一年级的往常那群人又一次不及格，所以他们帮忙维持秩序。二年级唯一的好处是，今年我可以和杰姆一样晚回家，我们通常三点钟一起走回家。
　　One afternoon when we were crossing the schoolyard toward home,Jem suddenly said: "There's something I didn't tell you."As this was his first complete sentence in several days, Iencouraged him: "About what?""About that night.""You've never told me anything about that night," I said.
一天下午，当我们穿过校园回家时，杰姆突然说：“有件事我没告诉你。”由于这是他几天来第一句完整的句子，我鼓励他：“关于什么？”“关于那天晚上。”“你从来没有告诉过我关于那天晚上的任何事，”我说。
　　Jem waved my words away as if fanning gnats. He was silent for awhile, then he said, "When I went back for my breeches- they wereall in a tangle when I was gettin' out of 'em, I couldn't get 'emloose. When I went back-" Jem took a deep breath. "When I went back,they were folded across the fence… like they were expectin' me.""Across-""And something else-" Jem's voice was flat. "Show you when we gethome. They'd been sewed up. Not like a lady sewed 'em, likesomethin' I'd try to do. All crooked. It's almost like-""-somebody knew you were comin' back for 'em."Jem shuddered. "Like somebody was readin' my mind… like somebodycould tell what I was gonna do. Can't anybody tell what I'm gonna dolest they know me, can they, Scout?"Jem's question was an appeal. I reassured him: "Can't anybody tellwhat you're gonna do lest they live in the house with you, and evenI can't tell sometimes."We were walking past our tree. In its knot-hole rested a ball ofgray twine.
杰姆挥了挥手，像扇蚊虫一样驱赶着我的话。他沉默了一会儿，然后说道：“我回去拿裤子的时候——我脱的时候，它们都缠在一起了，怎么也解不开。我回去的时候——”杰姆深吸了一口气。“我回去的时候，它们叠在篱笆上……好像在等我似的。”“叠在——”“还有别的——”杰姆的声音很平淡。“等我们回家给你看。它们被缝好了。不像是哪个女士缝的，不像我会做的那种。全都歪了。感觉就像——”“——有人知道你会回来拿它们。”杰姆打了个寒颤。 “就像有人读懂了我的心思……就像有人能猜到我要做什么。难道没人知道我要做什么吗？除非他们认识我，对吧，斯库特？”杰姆的问题带着恳求的意味。我安慰他：“难道没人知道你要做什么吗？除非他们和你住在一个屋子里，而且有时候连我自己都猜不出来。”我们正从我们的圣诞树旁走过。树节的洞里藏着一团灰色的麻线。
　　"Don't take it, Jem," I said. "This is somebody's hidin' place.""I don't think so, Scout.""Yes it is. Somebody like Walter Cunningham comes down here everyrecess and hides his things- and we come along and take 'em awayfrom him. Listen, let's leave it and wait a couple of days. If itain't gone then, we'll take it, okay?""Okay, you might be right," said Jem. "It must be some littlekid's place- hides his things from the bigger folks. You know it'sonly when school's in that we've found things.""Yeah," I said, "but we never go by here in the summertime."We went home. Next morning the twine was where we had left it.
“别拿，杰姆，”我说。“这是别人的藏身之处。”“我不这么认为，斯库特。”“没错。像沃尔特·坎宁安这样的人，每次课间休息都会来这里藏东西——然后我们就过去把他的东西拿走。听着，我们先把它留在那里，等几天。如果到时候还没走，我们就拿走，好吗？”“好吧，你可能说得对，”杰姆说。“这肯定是哪个小孩子的藏身之处——把东西藏起来，不让大人看到。你知道，只有放学的时候我们才会发现东西。”“是啊，”我说，“不过夏天我们从不来这里。”我们回家了。第二天早上，麻绳又回到了我们放的地方。
　　When it was still there on the third day, Jem pocketed it. From thenon, we considered everything we found in the knot-hole our property.
第三天，它还在那儿，杰姆就把它装进口袋了。从此以后，我们把在树洞里找到的所有东西都视为我们的财产。
　　-The second grade was grim, but Jem assured me that the older I gotthe better school would be, that he started off the same way, and itwas not until one reached the sixth grade that one learned anything ofvalue. The sixth grade seemed to please him from the beginning: hewent through a brief Egyptian Period that baffled me- he tried to walkflat a great deal, sticking one arm in front of him and one in back ofhim, putting one foot behind the other. He declared Egyptians walkedthat way; I said if they did I didn't see how they got anythingdone, but Jem said they accomplished more than the Americans ever did,they invented toilet paper and perpetual embalming, and asked wherewould we be today if they hadn't? Atticus told me to delete theadjectives and I'd have the facts.
二年级很残酷，但杰姆向我保证，我年纪越大，学校就越好。他一开始也是这样，直到六年级才学到一些有价值的东西。六年级似乎从一开始就让他很满意：他经历了一段让我困惑的短暂的埃及时期——他经常尝试平躺行走，一只胳膊放在身前，一只胳膊放在身后，一只脚放在另一只脚后面。他宣称埃及人就是这样走路的；我说如果他们真的这样，我真不明白他们是怎么做到的，但杰姆说他们比美国人成就更大，他们发明了卫生纸和永久防腐技术，并问如果他们没有发明，我们今天会怎样？阿蒂克斯让我删掉那些形容词，这样我就能知道真相了。
　　There are no clearly defined seasons in South Alabama; summer driftsinto autumn, and autumn is sometimes never followed by winter, butturns to a days-old spring that melts into summer again. That fall wasa long one, hardly cool enough for a light jacket. Jem and I weretrotting in our orbit one mild October afternoon when our knot-holestopped us again. Something white was inside this time.
南阿拉巴马州没有明确的季节划分；夏季缓缓过渡到秋季，而秋季有时从未过冬，而是转入持续数日的春季，然后又转入夏季。那年秋天漫长，几乎凉得不需要穿件薄外套。一个温和的十月午后，我和杰姆正在各自的轨道上慢跑，突然，树节洞再次挡住了我们的去路。这次，洞里出现了一个白色的东西。
　　Jem let me do the honors: I pulled out two small images carved insoap. One was the figure of a boy, the other wore a crude dress.
杰姆让我帮忙：我拿出两个刻在肥皂上的小雕像。一个是男孩的形象，另一个穿着一件粗糙的衣服。
　　Before I remembered that there was no such thing as hoo-dooing, Ishrieked and threw them down.
在我意识到根本没有巫毒这种东西之前，我尖叫起来并把它们扔了下去。
　　Jem snatched them up. "What's the matter with you?" he yelled. Herubbed the figures free of red dust. "These are good," he said.
杰姆一把抓起它们。“你怎么了？”他喊道。他擦掉了人偶上的红色粉末。“这些还不错，”他说。
　　"I've never seen any these good."He held them down to me. They were almost perfect miniatures oftwo children. The boy had on shorts, and a shock of soapy hair fell tohis eyebrows. I looked up at Jem. A point of straight brown hairkicked downwards from his part. I had never noticed it before.
“我从来没见过这么好看的。”他把它们递给我。它们几乎是两个孩子的完美缩影。男孩穿着短裤，一头沾满肥皂的头发垂到眉毛上。我抬头看着杰姆。一缕直直的棕色头发从他的分缝中垂下来。我以前从未注意到。
　　Jem looked from the girl-doll to me. The girl-doll wore bangs. Sodid I.
杰姆的目光从娃娃脸转向了我。娃娃脸留着刘海。我也是。
　　"These are us," he said.
“这就是我们，”他说。
　　"Who did 'em, you reckon?""Who do we know around here who whittles?" he asked.
“你猜是谁干的？”“我们这附近有谁会削木头吗？”他问。
　　"Mr. Avery.""Mr. Avery just does like this. I mean carves."Mr. Avery averaged a stick of stovewood per week; he honed it downto a toothpick and chewed it.
“艾弗里先生。”“艾弗里先生就是喜欢这样。我是说雕刻。”艾弗里先生平均每周用一根炉柴；他把它磨成牙签，然后咀嚼。
　　"There's old Miss Stephanie Crawford's sweetheart," I said.
“那是斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐的心上人，”我说。
　　"He carves all right, but he lives down the country. When would heever pay any attention to us?""Maybe he sits on the porch and looks at us instead of MissStephanie. If I was him, I would."Jem stared at me so long I asked what was the matter, but gotNothing, Scout for an answer. When we went home, Jem put the dollsin his trunk.
“他雕刻得还行，就是住在乡下。他什么时候会注意我们？”“也许他坐在门廊上，看着我们而不是斯蒂芬妮小姐。如果我是他，我就会。”杰姆盯着我看了很久，我问他怎么了，但得到的回答是“没什么，斯库特”。我们回家后，杰姆把娃娃放进了他的行李箱。
　　Less than two weeks later we found a whole package of chewing gum,which we enjoyed, the fact that everything on the Radley Place waspoison having slipped Jem's memory.
不到两周后，我们发现了一整包口香糖，我们非常喜欢，因为杰姆已经忘记了拉德利家里的所有东西都是有毒的。
　　The following week the knot-hole yielded a tarnished medal. Jemshowed it to Atticus, who said it was a spelling medal, that before wewere born the Maycomb County schools had spelling contests and awardedmedals to the winners. Atticus said someone must have lost it, and hadwe asked around? Jem camel-kicked me when I tried to say where wehad found it. Jem asked Atticus if he remembered anybody who everwon one, and Atticus said no.
接下来的一周，从节孔里挖出一枚失去光泽的奖牌。杰姆把它拿给阿蒂克斯看，阿蒂克斯说那是一枚拼写奖牌，在我们出生前，梅科姆县的学校就举办拼写比赛，并给获胜者颁发奖牌。阿蒂克斯说一定是有人把它弄丢了，我们有没有四处打听过？当我试图说出我们在哪里找到它时，杰姆像骆驼踢一样踢了我一脚。杰姆问阿蒂克斯是否记得有谁得过奖牌，阿蒂克斯说没有。
　　Our biggest prize appeared four days later. It was a pocket watchthat wouldn't run, on a chain with an aluminum knife.
四天后，我们最大的收获出现了。那是一块走不了的怀表，表链上挂着一把铝刀。
　　"You reckon it's white gold, Jem?""Don't know. I'll show it to Atticus."Atticus said it would probably be worth ten dollars, knife, chainand all, if it were new. "Did you swap with somebody at school?" heasked.
“你觉得是白金的吗，杰姆？”“不知道。我去给阿蒂克斯看看。”阿蒂克斯说，如果是新的，刀子、链子什么的，大概值十美元。“你在学校跟别人换过吗？”他问。
　　"Oh, no sir!" Jem pulled out his grandfather's watch that Atticuslet him carry once a week if Jem were careful with it. On the dayshe carried the watch, Jem walked on eggs. "Atticus, if it's allright with you, I'd rather have this one instead. Maybe I can fix it."When the new wore off his grandfather's watch, and carrying itbecame a day's burdensome task, Jem no longer felt the necessity ofascertaining the hour every five minutes.
“哦，不，先生！”杰姆掏出祖父的手表，阿蒂克斯让他每周戴一次，前提是他小心地戴。在他戴手表的日子里，杰姆总是小心翼翼。“阿蒂克斯，如果你不介意的话，我宁愿戴这块。也许我可以修好它。”当祖父的手表磨损了，戴它成了每天的负担时，杰姆不再觉得有必要每五分钟确认一次小时了。
　　He did a fair job, only one spring and two tiny pieces left over,but the watch would not run. "Oh-h," he sighed, "it'll never go.
他做得还不错，只剩下一个弹簧和两个小零件，但手表还是走不了。“唉，”他叹了口气，“它永远走不了了。”
　　Scout-?""Huh?""You reckon we oughta write a letter to whoever's leaving us thesethings?""That'd be right nice, Jem, we can thank 'em- what's wrong?"Jem was holding his ears, shaking his head from side to side. "Idon't get it, I just don't get it- I don't know why, Scout…" Helooked toward the livingroom. "I've gotta good mind to tell Atticus-no, I reckon not.""I'll tell him for you.""No, don't do that, Scout. Scout?""Wha-t?"He had been on the verge of telling me something all evening; hisface would brighten and he would lean toward me, then he wouldchange his mind. He changed it again. "Oh, nothin'.""Here, let's write a letter." I pushed a tablet and pencil under hisnose.
斯库特——？“啊？”“你觉得我们应该给留下这些东西的人写封信吗？”“那太好了，杰姆，我们可以感谢他们——怎么了？”杰姆捂着耳朵，摇着头。“我不明白，我就是不明白——我不知道为什么，斯库特……”他朝客厅望去。“我倒是想告诉阿蒂克斯——不，我想不会。”“我会帮你告诉他的。”“不，别这样，斯库特。斯库特？”“什么？”他整个晚上都快要跟我说什么了；他的脸色会变得明亮起来，向我靠过来，然后又会改变主意。他又改变了主意。“哦，没什么。”“来，我们写封信吧。”我把一块写字板和一支铅笔塞到他鼻子底下。
　　"Okay. Dear Mister…""How do you know it's a man? I bet it's Miss Maudie- been bettin'
“好的。亲爱的先生……”“你怎么知道是个男人？我打赌是莫迪小姐——我打赌……”
　　that for a long time.""Ar-r, Miss Maudie can't chew gum-" Jem broke into a grin. "Youknow, she can talk real pretty sometimes. One time I asked her to havea chew and she said no thanks, that- chewing gum cleaved to her palateand rendered her speechless," said Jem carefully. "Doesn't thatsound nice?""Yeah, she can say nice things sometimes. She wouldn't have awatch and chain anyway.""Dear sir," said Jem. "We appreciate the- no, we appreciateeverything which you have put into the tree for us. Yours verytruly, Jeremy Atticus Finch.""He won't know who you are if you sign it like that, Jem."Jem erased his name and wrote, "Jem Finch." I signed, "Jean LouiseFinch （Scout），" beneath it. Jem put the note in an envelope.
“啊，莫迪小姐不能嚼口香糖——”杰姆咧嘴一笑。“你知道，她有时说话真动听。有一次我请她嚼一块，她说不用了，那——口香糖粘在她上颚，让她说不出话来，”杰姆小心翼翼地说。“听起来不错吧？”“是啊，她有时也会说好话。反正她也不会戴手表和项链。”“亲爱的先生，”杰姆说。“我们很感激——不，我们很感激您为我们放在圣诞树上的一切。此致，杰里米·阿蒂克斯·芬奇。”“如果你这样签名，他就不会知道你是谁了，杰姆。”杰姆擦掉了自己的名字，写下“杰姆·芬奇”。我在下面签了名“琼·路易丝·芬奇（斯库特）”。杰姆把纸条放进信封里。
　　Next morning on the way to school he ran ahead of me and stoppedat the tree. Jem was facing me when he looked up, and I saw him gostark white.
第二天早上上学路上，他跑到我前面，在树下停了下来。杰姆抬头时正对着我，我看到他脸色苍白。
　　"Scout!"I ran to him.
“侦察兵！”我跑向他。
　　Someone had filled our knot-hole with cement.
有人用水泥填满了我们的树洞。
　　"Don't you cry, now, Scout… don't cry now, don't you worry-" hemuttered at me all the way to school.
“别哭，斯库特……别哭，别担心——”他一路上都在对我说。
　　When we went home for dinner Jem bolted his food, ran to the porchand stood on the steps. I followed him. "Hasn't passed by yet," hesaid.
我们回家吃饭的时候，杰姆狼吞虎咽地吃完饭，跑到门廊的台阶上站着。我跟着他。“还没过去呢，”他说。
　　Next day Jem repeated his vigil and was rewarded.
第二天，杰姆再次守夜并得到了奖励。
　　"Hidy do, Mr. Nathan," he said. ...
　　"Morning Jem, Scout," said Mr. Radley, as he went by.
“早上好，杰姆，斯库特，”拉德利先生走过时说道。
　　"Mr. Radley," said Jem. ...
　　Mr. Radley turned around. ...
　　"Mr. Radley, ah- did you put cement in that hole in that tree downyonder?""Yes," he said. "I filled it up.""Why'd you do it, sir?""Tree's dying. You plug 'em with cement when they're sick. You oughtto know that, Jem."Jem said nothing more about it until late afternoon. When wepassed our tree he gave it a meditative pat on its cement, andremained deep in thought. He seemed to be working himself into a badhumor, so I kept my distance.
“拉德利先生，啊——你在那边那棵树的洞里抹水泥了吗？”“是的，”他说。“我把它填上了。”“先生，你为什么要这么做？”“树快死了。它们病了，就用水泥堵住。你应该明白这一点，杰姆。”杰姆直到傍晚才提起这件事。我们经过那棵树时，他若有所思地拍了拍水泥，陷入了沉思。他似乎心情很不好，所以我就离他远点。
　　As usual, we met Atticus coming home from work that evening. When wewere at our steps Jem said, "Atticus, look down yonder at that tree,please sir.""What tree, son?""The one on the corner of the Radley lot comin' from school.""Yes?""Is that tree dyin'?""Why no, son, I don't think so. Look at the leaves, they're allgreen and full, no brown patches anywhere-""It ain't even sick?""That tree's as healthy as you are, Jem. Why?""Mr. Nathan Radley said it was dyin'.""Well maybe it is. I'm sure Mr. Radley knows more about his treesthan we do."Atticus left us on the porch. Jem leaned on a pillar, rubbing hisshoulders against it.
那天晚上，我们像往常一样碰见阿蒂克斯下班回家。我们走到门口时，杰姆说：“阿蒂克斯，先生，请看看那边那棵树。”“什么树，儿子？”“就是拉德利家那块地拐角处的那棵，从学校那边过来。”“怎么了？”“那棵树快死了吗？”“不，儿子，我觉得没有。看看这些叶子，全是绿油油的，满满的，一点棕色的斑点都没有——”“它甚至没有生病？”“那棵树和你一样健康，杰姆。怎么回事？”“内森·拉德利先生说它快死了。”“嗯，也许是吧。我肯定拉德利先生比我们更了解他的树。”阿蒂克斯把我们留在门廊上。杰姆靠在一根柱子上，用肩膀蹭着它。
　　"Do you itch, Jem?" I asked as politely as I could. He did notanswer. "Come on in, Jem," I said.
“杰姆，你痒吗？”我尽量礼貌地问道。他没有回答。“进来吧，杰姆，”我说。
　　"After while."He stood there until nightfall, and I waited for him. When we wentin the house I saw he had been crying; his face was dirty in the rightplaces, but I thought it odd that I had not heard him.
“过了一会儿。”他一直站在那里直到夜幕降临，我等着他。我们进屋时，我看到他一直在哭；他的脸在应该哭的地方很脏，但我却觉得奇怪，我竟然没听到他哭。
　　8For reasons unfathomable to the most experienced prophets in MaycombCounty, autumn turned to winter that year. We had two weeks of thecoldest weather since 1885, Atticus said. Mr. Avery said it waswritten on the Rosetta Stone that when children disobeyed theirparents, smoked cigarettes and made war on each other, the seasonswould change: Jem and I were burdened with the guilt of contributingto the aberrations of nature, thereby causing unhappiness to ourneighbors and discomfort to ourselves.
8那一年，秋天变成了冬天，原因连梅科姆县最有经验的预言家都无法理解。阿蒂克斯说，我们经历了自1885年以来最冷的两周。艾弗里先生说，罗塞塔石碑上写着，当孩子们不听父母的话、吸烟、互相争斗时，季节就会改变：杰姆和我深感愧疚，因为我们助长了自然的反常，从而给邻居带来了不幸，也给我们自己带来了不适。
　　Old Mrs. Radley died that winter, but her death caused hardly aripple- the neighborhood seldom saw her, except when she watered hercannas. Jem and I decided that Boo had got her at last, but whenAtticus returned from the Radley house he said she died of naturalcauses, to our disappointment.
那年冬天，老拉德利太太去世了，但她的去世几乎没有引起什么波澜——邻居们很少见到她，除非她浇美人蕉。杰姆和我以为布终于把她找到了，可阿蒂克斯从拉德利家回来时却说她是自然死亡，这让我们很失望。
　　"Ask him," Jem whispered. ...
　　"You ask him, you're the oldest.""That's why you oughta ask him.""Atticus," I said, "did you see Mr. Arthur?"Atticus looked sternly around his newspaper at me: "I did not."Jem restrained me from further questions. He said Atticus wasstill touchous about us and the Radleys and it wouldn't do to push himany. Jem had a notion that Atticus thought our activities that nightlast summer were not solely confined to strip poker. Jem had no firmbasis for his ideas, he said it was merely a twitch.
“你问他吧，你是老大。”“所以你应该问他。”“阿蒂克斯，”我说，“你看到亚瑟先生了吗？”阿蒂克斯目光凌厉地从报纸上扫过我：“我没有。”杰姆阻止我继续提问。他说阿蒂克斯对我们和拉德利一家的事仍然耿耿于怀，逼他太久是不行的。杰姆觉得阿蒂克斯认为我们去年夏天那天晚上的活动不仅仅是玩脱衣扑克。杰姆的想法没有确凿的证据，他说那只是一时兴起。
　　Next morning I awoke, looked out the window and nearly died offright. My screams brought Atticus from his bathroom half-shaven.
第二天早上我醒来，看着窗外，差点被吓死。我的尖叫声把剃了一半胡子的阿提克斯从浴室里叫了出来。
　　"The world's endin', Atticus! Please do something-!" I dragged himto the window and pointed.
“世界末日来了，阿蒂克斯！请你做点什么——！”我把他拖到窗边，指着他说。
　　"No it's not," he said. "It's snowing."Jem asked Atticus would it keep up. Jem had never seen snoweither, but he knew what it was. Atticus said he didn't know anymore about snow than Jem did. "I think, though, if it's watery likethat, it'll turn to rain."The telephone rang and Atticus left the breakfast table to answerit. "That was Eula May," he said when he returned. "I quote- 'As ithas not snowed in Maycomb County since 1885, there will be no schooltoday.'"Eula May was Maycomb's leading telephone operator. She was entrustedwith issuing public announcements, wedding invitations, setting offthe fire siren, and giving first-aid instructions when Dr. Reynoldswas away.
“不是，”他说，“下雪了。”杰姆问阿蒂克斯雪会不会一直下。杰姆也从来没见过雪，但他知道那是什么雪。阿蒂克斯说，他对雪的了解和杰姆一样少。“不过，我觉得，如果像那样湿漉漉的，就会变成雨。”电话铃响了，阿蒂克斯离开早餐桌去接电话。“是尤拉·梅，”他回来后说。“我引用一下——‘梅科姆县自1885年以来就没下过雪，所以今天学校停课。’”尤拉·梅是梅科姆县的首席电话接线员。她负责发布公告、婚礼请柬、拉响火警警报，以及在雷诺兹医生不在的时候提供急救指导。
　　When Atticus finally called us to order and bade us look at ourplates instead of out the windows, Jem asked, "How do you make asnowman?""I haven't the slightest idea," said Atticus. "I don't want youall to be disappointed, but I doubt if there'll be enough snow for asnowball, even."Calpurnia came in and said she thought it was sticking. When weran to the back yard, it was covered with a feeble layer of soggysnow.
当阿蒂克斯终于叫我们点餐，让我们看着盘子而不是窗外时，杰姆问道：“你们怎么堆雪人？”“我一点儿也不知道，”阿蒂克斯说。“我不想让你们失望，但我怀疑雪是否足够堆一个雪球。”卡尔珀尼亚进来了，说她觉得雪球已经粘住了。我们跑到后院，发现雪上只盖了一层薄薄的、湿漉漉的雪。
　　"We shouldn't walk about in it," said Jem. "Look, every step youtake's wasting it."I looked back at my mushy footprints. Jem said if we waited until itsnowed some more we could scrape it all up for a snowman. I stuckout my tongue and caught a fat flake. It burned.
“我们不应该在雪里走来走去，”杰姆说。“你看，你每走一步都是在浪费时间。”我回头看了看自己那些黏糊糊的脚印。杰姆说，如果我们等到雪下得再大一些，就可以把积雪都刮起来堆雪人了。我伸出舌头，接住了一大片雪片。它烫着我了。
　　"Jem, it's hot!""No it ain't, it's so cold it burns. Now don't eat it, Scout, you'rewasting it. Let it come down.""But I want to walk in it.""I know what, we can go walk over at Miss Maudie's."Jem hopped across the front yard. I followed in his tracks. Whenwe were on the sidewalk in front of Miss Maudie's, Mr. Averyaccosted us. He had a pink face and a big stomach below his belt.
“杰姆，好烫啊！”“不烫，冷得烫手。斯库特，别吃了，你这是在浪费。把它放下来。”“可是我想穿着它走走。”“我知道，我们可以去莫迪小姐家走走。”杰姆蹦蹦跳跳地穿过前院。我跟在他身后。我们走到莫迪小姐家门前的人行道上时，艾弗里先生跟我们搭话。他脸色红润，肚子鼓鼓的。
　　"See what you've done?" he said. "Hasn't snowed in Maycomb sinceAppomattox. It's bad children like you makes the seasons change."I wondered if Mr. Avery knew how hopefully we had watched lastsummer for him to repeat his performance, and reflected that if thiswas our reward, there was something to say for sin. I did not wonderwhere Mr. Avery gathered his meteorological statistics: they camestraight from the Rosetta Stone.
“看看你们都干了些什么？”他说。“自从阿波马托克斯之后，梅科姆就没下过雪。就是你们这些坏孩子，才让季节变迁。”我琢磨着艾弗里先生是否知道，去年夏天我们多么期盼着他重演那出戏，心想如果这就是我们的奖赏，那罪孽也该有个说法了。我并不怀疑艾弗里先生的气象统计数据是从哪里来的：它们直接来自罗塞塔石碑。
　　"Jem Finch, you Jem Finch!""Miss Maudie's callin' you, Jem.""You all stay in the middle of the yard. There's some thriftburied under the snow near the porch. Don't step on it!""Yessum!" called Jem. "It's beautiful, ain't it, Miss Maudie?""Beautiful my hind foot! If it freezes tonight it'll carry off allmy azaleas!"Miss Maudie's old sunhat glistened with snow crystals. She wasbending over some small bushes, wrapping them in burlap bags. Jemasked her what she was doing that for.
“杰姆·芬奇，你，杰姆·芬奇！”“莫迪小姐叫你呢，杰姆。”“你们都待在院子中间。门廊附近的雪下埋着一些石竹花。别踩到它！”“是啊！”杰姆喊道。“很漂亮，不是吗，莫迪小姐？”“我的后脚真漂亮！要是今晚结冰，我的杜鹃花全都冻死了！”莫迪小姐那顶旧遮阳帽上闪着晶莹的雪晶。她正弯腰在几棵小灌木上，用粗麻布袋包着它们。杰蒙着脸问她干什么。
　　"Keep 'em warm," she said. ...
　　"How can flowers keep warm? They don't circulate.""I cannot answer that question, Jem Finch. All I know is if itfreezes tonight these plants'll freeze, so you cover 'em up. Is thatclear?""Yessum. Miss Maudie?""What, sir?""Could Scout and me borrow some of your snow?""Heavens alive, take it all! There's an old peach basket under thehouse, haul it off in that." Miss Maudie's eyes narrowed. "JemFinch, what are you going to do with my snow?""You'll see," said Jem, and we transferred as much snow as wecould from Miss Maudie's yard to ours, a slushy operation.
“花儿怎么保暖？它们不循环。”“杰姆·芬奇，这个问题我回答不了。我只知道如果今晚结冰，这些植物也会冻死，所以你得把它们盖起来。明白了吗？”“明白了，夫人。莫迪小姐？”“什么事，先生？”“斯库特和我能借用一下你的雪吗？”“我的天哪，都拿去吧！房子下面有个旧桃子筐，用那个筐子把它搬走。”莫迪小姐眯起了眼睛。“杰姆·芬奇，你打算怎么处理我的雪？”“走着瞧吧，”杰姆说。我们把莫迪小姐院子里尽可能多的雪搬到我们院子里，真是雪泥泞。
　　"What are we gonna do, Jem?" I asked.
“我们该怎么办，杰姆？”我问道。
　　"You'll see," he said. "Now get the basket and haul all the snow youcan rake up from the back yard to the front. Walk back in your tracks,though," he cautioned.
“你会看到的，”他说。“现在把篮子拿来，把后院里能耙起来的雪都搬到前院去。不过，先往回走，”他提醒道。
　　"Are we gonna have a snow baby, Jem?""No, a real snowman. Gotta work hard, now."Jem ran to the back yard, produced the garden hoe and begandigging quickly behind the woodpile, placing any worms he found to oneside. He went in the house, returned with the laundry hamper, filledit with earth and carried it to the front yard.
“杰姆，我们要堆个雪宝宝吗？”“不，要堆个真正的雪人。现在得好好干活了。”杰姆跑到后院，拿出园艺锄头，在柴堆后面飞快地挖起来，把挖到的虫子都扔到一边。他回到屋里，拿着洗衣篮回来，往里面填满土，然后搬到前院。
　　When we had five baskets of earth and two baskets of snow, Jemsaid we were ready to begin.
当我们准备好五篮土和两篮雪时，杰姆说我们可以开始了。
　　"Don't you think this is kind of a mess?" I asked.
“你不觉得这有点乱吗？”我问道。
　　"Looks messy now, but it won't later," he said.
他说：“现在看起来很乱，但以后就不会了。”
　　Jem scooped up an armful of dirt, patted it into a mound on which headded another load, and another until he had constructed a torso.
杰姆抓起一把泥土，拍成小堆，然后又在上面放了一堆，又放了一堆，直到堆成了一个躯干。
　　"Jem, I ain't ever heard of a nigger snowman," I said. ...
　　"He won't be black long," he grunted. ...
　　Jem procured some peachtree switches from the back yard, plaitedthem, and bent them into bones to be covered with dirt.
杰姆从后院弄来一些桃树枝条，把它们编成辫子，然后弯成骨头状，再用泥土覆盖。
　　"He looks like Stephanie Crawford with her hands on her hips," Isaid. "Fat in the middle and little-bitty arms.""I'll make 'em bigger." Jem sloshed water over the mud man and addedmore dirt. He looked thoughtfully at it for a moment, then he molded abig stomach below the figure's waistline. Jem glanced at me, hiseyes twinkling: "Mr. Avery's sort of shaped like a snowman, ain't he?"Jem scooped up some snow and began plastering it on. He permitted meto cover only the back, saving the public parts for himself. GraduallyMr. Avery turned white.
“他看起来像斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德，双手叉腰，”我说，“肚子中间胖胖的，胳膊又小又粗。”“我会把它们弄大点。”杰姆往泥人身上泼了点水，又加了些泥。他若有所思地看了一会儿，然后在泥人的腰线以下塑造了一个大肚子。杰姆瞥了我一眼，眼睛闪闪发光：“艾弗里先生的身材有点像雪人，对吧？”杰姆铲起一些雪，开始往上抹。他只让我盖住后背，把阴部留给自己。艾弗里先生的脸色渐渐白了。
　　Using bits of wood for eyes, nose, mouth, and buttons, Jem succeededin making Mr. Avery look cross. A stick of stovewood completed thepicture. Jem stepped back and viewed his creation.
杰姆用几块木头做眼睛、鼻子、嘴巴，还用纽扣做了个小雕像，成功地让艾弗里先生看起来有些生气。一根柴火柴完成了这幅画。杰姆退后一步，欣赏着自己的作品。
　　"It's lovely, Jem," I said. "Looks almost like he'd talk to you.""It is, ain't it?" he said shyly.
“真可爱，杰姆，”我说，“看起来他好像很想跟你说话。”“是啊，不是吗？”他害羞地说。
　　We could not wait for Atticus to come home for dinner, but calledand said we had a big surprise for him. He seemed surprised when hesaw most of the back yard in the front yard, but he said we had done ajim-dandy job. "I didn't know how you were going to do it," he said toJem, "but from now on I'll never worry about what'll become of you,son, you'll always have an idea."Jem's ears reddened from Atticus's compliment, but he looked upsharply when he saw Atticus stepping back. Atticus squinted at thesnowman a while. He grinned, then laughed. "Son, I can't tell whatyou're going to be- an engineer, a lawyer, or a portrait painter.
我们迫不及待地等着阿蒂克斯回家吃饭，就打电话告诉他我们有个大惊喜要给他。当他在前院看到后院的大部分景象时，他似乎很惊讶，但他说我们做得太棒了。“我不知道你会怎么做，”他对杰姆说，“不过从现在起，我再也不用担心你会变成什么样了，儿子，你永远都有主意。”杰姆被阿蒂克斯的夸奖弄得耳朵都红了，但看到阿蒂克斯往后退了一步，他猛地抬起头。阿蒂克斯眯着眼看了一会儿雪人，咧嘴一笑，然后笑了起来。“儿子，我说不准你会成为什么——工程师、律师，还是肖像画家。”
　　You've perpetrated a near libel here in the front yard. We've got todisguise this fellow."Atticus suggested that Jem hone down his creation's front alittle, swap a broom for the stovewood, and put an apron on him.
“你在前院里几乎犯了诽谤罪。我们得把这家伙伪装一下。”阿蒂克斯建议杰姆把他创作的木偶的前部磨平一点，用扫帚代替柴火，再给他系上围裙。
　　Jem explained that if he did, the snowman would become muddy andcease to be a snowman.
杰姆解释说，如果他这样做，雪人就会变得满是泥巴，不再是雪人了。
　　"I don't care what you do, so long as you do something," saidAtticus. "You can't go around making caricatures of the neighbors.""Ain't a characterture," said Jem. "It looks just like him.""Mr. Avery might not think so.""I know what!" said Jem. He raced across the street, disappearedinto Miss Maudie's back yard and returned triumphant. He stuck hersunhat on the snowman's head and jammed her hedge-clippers into thecrook of his arm. Atticus said that would be fine.
“我不管你做什么，只要你有所作为就行，”阿蒂克斯说。“你不能到处画邻居的漫画。”“那不是人物画，”杰姆说。“看起来就像他。”“艾弗里先生可能不这么认为。”“我知道！”杰姆说。他飞奔过马路，消失在莫迪小姐的后院里，然后得意洋洋地回来了。他把遮阳帽戴在雪人的头上，把修枝剪插进他的臂弯里。阿蒂克斯说这样就好了。
　　Miss Maudie opened her front door and came out on the porch. Shelooked across the street at us. Suddenly she grinned. "Jem Finch," shecalled. "You devil, bring me back my hat, sir!"Jem looked up at Atticus, who shook his head. "She's justfussing," he said. "She's really impressed with your-accomplishments."Atticus strolled over to Miss Maudie's sidewalk, where theyengaged in an arm-waving conversation, the only phrase of which Icaught was "…erected an absolute morphodite in that yard! Atticus,you'll never raise 'em!"The snow stopped in the afternoon, the temperature dropped, and bynightfall Mr. Avery's direst predictions came true: Calpurnia keptevery fireplace in the house blazing, but we were cold. When Atticuscame home that evening he said we were in for it, and askedCalpurnia if she wanted to stay with us for the night. Calpurniaglanced up at the high ceilings and long windows and said shethought she'd be warmer at her house. Atticus drove her home in thecar.
莫迪小姐打开前门，走到门廊上。她隔着马路看着我们。突然咧嘴一笑。“杰姆·芬奇，”她喊道。“你这个魔鬼，先生，把我的帽子还给我！”杰姆抬头看着阿蒂克斯，阿蒂克斯摇了摇头。“她只是在装腔作势，”他说。“她真的对你的——成就——印象深刻。”阿蒂克斯漫步走到莫迪小姐家的人行道上，他们挥舞着手臂交谈起来，我只听到一句话：“……在那院子里竖起了一个绝对的变形虫！阿蒂克斯，你永远也养不起它！”下午雪停了，气温也下降了，到了晚上，艾弗里先生最可怕的预言成真了：卡尔珀尼亚让房子里的每个壁炉都熊熊燃烧，但我们却觉得冷。那天晚上阿蒂克斯回家后，他说我们倒霉了，并问卡尔珀尼亚是否想在我们家过夜。卡尔普尼亚抬头看了一眼高高的天花板和长长的窗户，说她觉得在家会更暖和。阿蒂克斯开车送她回家。
　　Before I went to sleep Atticus put more coal on the fire in my room.
在我睡觉之前，阿提克斯在我房间的火上放了更多的煤。
　　He said the thermometer registered sixteen, that it was the coldestnight in his memory, and that our snowman outside was frozen solid.
他说温度计显示温度为十六度，这是他记忆中最冷的一个夜晚，外面的雪人已经冻得结结实实的。
　　Minutes later, it seemed, I was awakened by someone shaking me.
几分钟后，似乎有人摇醒了我。
　　Atticus's overcoat was spread across me. "Is it morning already?""Baby, get up."Atticus was holding out my bathrobe and coat. "Put your robe onfirst," he said.
阿蒂克斯的外套盖在我身上。“天亮了吗？”“宝贝，起床。”阿蒂克斯递给我浴袍和外套。“先把你的浴袍穿上，”他说。
　　Jem was standing beside Atticus, groggy and tousled. He washolding his overcoat closed at the neck, his other hand was jammedinto his pocket. He looked strangely overweight.
杰姆站在阿蒂克斯旁边，昏昏沉沉，头发凌乱。他紧紧抓住大衣领口，另一只手插在口袋里。他看起来胖得有点奇怪。
　　"Hurry, hon," said Atticus. "Here're your shoes and socks."Stupidly, I put them on. "Is it morning?""No, it's a little after one. Hurry now."That something was wrong finally got through to me. "What's thematter?"By then he did not have to tell me. Just as the birds know whereto go when it rains, I knew when there was trouble in our street. Softtaffeta-like sounds and muffled scurrying sounds filled me withhelpless dread.
“快点，亲爱的，”阿蒂克斯说。“这是你的鞋袜。”我傻乎乎地穿上了。“现在是早上吗？”“不，才一点多一点。快点。”我终于意识到出事了。“怎么了？”这时他不用告诉我也知道了。就像下雨时鸟儿知道去哪儿一样，我知道我们这条街什么时候出事了。柔软的塔夫绸般的声音和低沉的匆匆跑动声让我充满了无助的恐惧。
　　"Whose is it?""Miss Maudie's, hon," said Atticus gently.
“这是谁的？”“亲爱的，是莫迪小姐的，”阿蒂克斯温柔地说道。
　　At the front door, we saw fire spewing from Miss Maudie's diningroomwindows. As if to confirm what we saw, the town fire siren wailed upthe scale to a treble pitch and remained there, screaming.
在前门，我们看到莫迪小姐餐厅的窗户里喷出火苗。仿佛是为了证实我们所见，镇上的火警警报器高声鸣响，直到最后，依然刺耳地响着。
　　"It's gone, ain't it?" moaned Jem. ...
　　"I expect so," said Atticus. "Now listen, both of you. Go down andstand in front of the Radley Place. Keep out of the way, do youhear? See which way the wind's blowing?""Oh," said Jem. "Atticus, reckon we oughta start moving thefurniture out?""Not yet, son. Do as I tell you. Run now. Take care of Scout, youhear? Don't let her out of your sight."With a push, Atticus started us toward the Radley front gate. Westood watching the street fill with men and cars while fire silentlydevoured Miss Maudie's house. "Why don't they hurry, why don't theyhurry…" muttered Jem.
“我想是的，”阿蒂克斯说。“现在你们两个听着。下去，站在拉德利家门前。别挡路，听见了吗？看看风往哪个方向吹？”“哦，”杰姆说。“阿蒂克斯，我们是不是该把家具搬出去了？”“还没到时候，儿子。照我说的做。现在就跑。照顾好斯库特，听见了吗？别让她离开你的视线。”阿蒂克斯推了推我们，带我们朝拉德利家的大门走去。我们站在那里，看着街上挤满了人和汽车，大火正悄无声息地吞噬着莫迪小姐的房子。“他们为什么不快点，为什么不快点……”杰姆嘟囔道。
　　We saw why. The old fire truck, killed by the cold, was being pushedfrom town by a crowd of men. When the men attached its hose to ahydrant, the hose burst and water shot up, tinkling down on thepavement.
我们明白了原因。一辆老旧的消防车被冻坏了，正被一群人从镇上推下来。当人们把水管接到消防栓上时，水管爆裂了，水喷涌而出，叮咚作响地落在人行道上。
　　"Oh-h Lord, Jem…"Jem put his arm around me. "Hush, Scout," he said. "It ain't time toworry yet. I'll let you know when."The men of Maycomb, in all degrees of dress and undress, tookfurniture from Miss Maudie's house to a yard across the street. Isaw Atticus carrying Miss Maudie's heavy oak rocking chair, andthought it sensible of him to save what she valued most.
“哦，天哪，杰姆……”杰姆搂住我。“嘘，斯库特，”他说，“现在还不是担心的时候。到时候我会告诉你的。”梅科姆的男人们，衣着光鲜，把家具从莫迪小姐家搬到街对面的院子里。我看到阿蒂克斯正抬着莫迪小姐那把沉甸甸的橡木摇椅，心想他应该把莫迪小姐最珍贵的东西留下来。
　　Sometimes we heard shouts. Then Mr. Avery's face appeared in anupstairs window. He pushed a mattress out the window into the streetand threw down furniture until men shouted, "Come down from there,Dick! The stairs are going! Get outta there, Mr. Avery!"Mr. Avery began climbing through the window.
有时我们听到喊叫声。然后，艾弗里先生的脸出现在楼上的窗户里。他把一张床垫从窗户推到街上，把家具扔到地上，直到有人喊道：“迪克，下来！楼梯要塌了！快出来，艾弗里先生！”艾弗里先生开始从窗户往外爬。
　　"Scout, he's stuck…" breathed Jem. "Oh God…"Mr. Avery was wedged tightly. I buried my head under Jem's arm anddidn't look again until Jem cried, "He's got loose, Scout! He's allright!"I looked up to see Mr. Avery cross the upstairs porch. He swunghis legs over the railing and was sliding down a pillar when heslipped. He fell, yelled, and hit Miss Maudie's shrubbery.
“斯库特，他卡住了……”杰姆倒吸一口气。“哦，天哪……”艾弗里先生被卡得紧紧的。我把头埋在杰姆的胳膊下，直到杰姆喊道：“他脱身了，斯库特！他没事了！”我抬头看见艾弗里先生正穿过楼上的门廊。他双腿一甩，越过栏杆，正从一根柱子上滑下来，这时他滑倒了。他摔倒了，大叫一声，撞到了莫迪小姐家的灌木丛。
　　Suddenly I noticed that the men were backing away from Miss Maudie'shouse, moving down the street toward us. They were no longercarrying furniture. The fire was well into the second floor and hadeaten its way to the roof: window frames were black against a vividorange center.
突然，我注意到那些人正从莫迪小姐的房子后退，沿着街道朝我们走来。他们不再搬运家具了。火势已经蔓延到二楼，一路烧到了屋顶：窗框漆黑一片，中心是鲜艳的橙色。
　　"Jem, it looks like a pumpkin-""Scout, look!"Smoke was rolling off our house and Miss Rachel's house like fog offa riverbank, and men were pulling hoses toward them. Behind us, thefire truck from Abbottsville screamed around the curve and stoppedin front of our house.
“杰姆，它看起来像个南瓜——”“斯库特，看！”浓烟从我们家和雷切尔小姐家滚滚而出，就像河岸上的雾气一样，人们正用水管向他们冲去。在我们身后，从阿伯茨维尔来的消防车呼啸着绕过弯道，停在我们家门前。
　　"That book…" I said. ...
　　"What?" said Jem. ...
　　"That Tom Swift book, it ain't mine, it's Dill's…""Don't worry, Scout, it ain't time to worry yet," said Jem. Hepointed. "Looka yonder."In a group of neighbors, Atticus was standing with his hands inhis overcoat pockets. He might have been watching a football game.
“那本汤姆·斯威夫特的书，不是我的，是迪尔的……”“别担心，斯库特，现在还不到担心的时候，”杰姆说。他指着那边。“看那边。”在一群邻居中，阿蒂克斯双手插在大衣口袋里站着。他像是在看一场足球赛。
　　Miss Maudie was beside him. ...
　　"See there, he's not worried yet," said Jem.
“瞧，他还不担心呢，”杰姆说。
　　"Why ain't he on top of one of the houses?""He's too old, he'd break his neck.""You think we oughta make him get our stuff out?""Let's don't pester him, he'll know when it's time," said Jem.
“他为什么不在房子顶上呢？”“他太老了，会摔断脖子的。”“你觉得我们应该让他把我们的东西拿出来吗？”“我们别烦他了，他知道什么时候该这么做，”杰姆说。
　　The Abbottsville fire truck began pumping water on our house; aman on the roof pointed to places that needed it most. I watched ourAbsolute Morphodite go black and crumble; Miss Maudie's sunhat settledon top of the heap. I could not see her hedge-clippers. In the heatbetween our house, Miss Rachel's and Miss Maudie's, the men had longago shed coats and bathrobes. They worked in pajama tops andnightshirts stuffed into their pants, but I became aware that I wasslowly freezing where I stood. Jem tried to keep me warm, but hisarm was not enough. I pulled free of it and clutched my shoulders.
阿伯茨维尔的消防车开始往我们家浇水；屋顶上的一个男人指着最需要浇水的地方。我看着我们的“绝对变形怪”变黑变脆，碎成一团；莫迪小姐的遮阳帽落在了那堆水的顶上。我看不见她的修枝剪。在我们家、雷切尔小姐家和莫迪小姐家之间的高温下，消防员们早就脱掉了外套和浴袍。他们穿着睡衣上衣和塞在裤子里的睡衣干活，但我意识到自己站在那里慢慢地冻僵了。杰姆想帮我保暖，但他的胳膊根本不够用。我挣脱了他的胳膊，紧紧抱住肩膀。
　　By dancing a little, I could feel my feet.
通过跳舞，我就能感觉到我的脚了。
　　Another fire truck appeared and stopped in front of Miss StephanieCrawford's. There was no hydrant for another hose, and the men triedto soak her house with hand extinguishers.
另一辆消防车出现并停在斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐家门前。由于没有消防栓，消防员们试图用手持灭火器向她家泼水。
　　Miss Maudie's tin roof quelled the flames. Roaring, the housecollapsed; fire gushed everywhere, followed by a flurry of blanketsfrom men on top of the adjacent houses, beating out sparks and burningchunks of wood.
莫迪小姐的铁皮屋顶扑灭了火焰。轰隆一声，房子倒塌了；火焰四处喷涌，紧接着，相邻房屋顶上的人们用毯子猛地盖住屋顶，溅出火花，烧着一堆木头。
　　It was dawn before the men began to leave, first one by one, then ingroups. They pushed the Maycomb fire truck back to town, theAbbottsville truck departed, the third one remained. We found out nextday it had come from Clark's Ferry, sixty miles away.
天亮时，人们才开始离开，先是一辆接一辆，然后是三五成群。他们把梅科姆的消防车推回镇上，阿伯茨维尔的消防车也开走了，第三辆留下了。第二天我们才知道，那辆消防车是从六十英里外的克拉克渡口开来的。
　　Jem and I slid across the street. Miss Maudie was staring at thesmoking black hole in her yard, and Atticus shook his head to tellus she did not want to talk. He led us home, holding onto ourshoulders to cross the icy street. He said Miss Maudie would stay withMiss Stephanie for the time being.
我和杰姆悄悄地穿过街道。莫迪小姐正盯着自家院子里那个冒烟的黑洞，阿蒂克斯摇了摇头，表示她不想说话。他领着我们回家，扶着我们的肩膀穿过结冰的街道。他说莫迪小姐暂时会和斯蒂芬妮小姐待在一起。
　　"Anybody want some hot chocolate?" he asked. I shuddered whenAtticus started a fire in the kitchen stove.
“有人想喝点热巧克力吗？”他问。阿蒂克斯在厨房炉子里生火时，我不禁打了个寒颤。
　　As we drank our cocoa I noticed Atticus looking at me, first withcuriosity, then with sternness. "I thought I told you and Jem tostay put," he said.
我们喝可可的时候，我注意到阿蒂克斯看着我，先是好奇，然后变得严厉起来。“我好像告诉过你和杰姆别动，”他说。
　　"Why, we did. We stayed-""Then whose blanket is that?""Blanket?""Yes ma'am, blanket. It isn't ours."I looked down and found myself clutching a brown woolen blanket Iwas wearing around my shoulders, squaw-fashion.
“为什么，我们确实待在那里。我们待在——”“那那条毯子是谁的？”“毯子？”“是的，夫人，是毯子。这不是我们的。”我低头一看，发现自己紧紧抓着一条棕色的羊毛毯子，像印第安妇女那样披在肩上。
　　"Atticus, I don't know, sir… I-"I turned to Jem for an answer, but Jem was even more bewildered thanI. He said he didn't know how it got there, we did exactly asAtticus had told us, we stood down by the Radley gate away fromeverybody, we didn't move an inch- Jem stopped.
“阿蒂克斯，我不知道，先生……我——”我转向杰姆，想听听答案，但杰姆比我更困惑。他说他不知道它是怎么到那儿的，我们完全按照阿蒂克斯说的做了，站在拉德利家门口，远离人群，一动不动——杰姆停了下来。
　　"Mr. Nathan was at the fire," he babbled, "I saw him, I saw him,he was tuggin' that mattress- Atticus, I swear…""That's all right, son." Atticus grinned slowly. "Looks like allof Maycomb was out tonight, in one way or another. Jem, there's somewrapping paper in the pantry, I think. Go get it and we'll-""Atticus, no sir!"Jem seemed to have lost his mind. He began pouring out our secretsright and left in total disregard for my safety if not for his own,omitting nothing, knot-hole, pants and all.
“内森先生在火炉边，”他含糊不清地说，“我看到他了，我看到他了，他拽着床垫——阿蒂克斯，我发誓……”“没事儿，儿子。”阿蒂克斯慢慢地咧嘴一笑。“看来今晚梅科姆镇的人都出去了，不管怎样。杰姆，我想食品储藏室里有一些包装纸。去拿来，我们……”“阿蒂克斯，不，先生！”杰姆似乎疯了。他开始滔滔不绝地吐露我们的秘密，完全不顾我的安危，甚至不顾他自己的安危，什么都没漏掉，连节孔、裤子，什么都漏掉了。
　　"…Mr. Nathan put cement in that tree, Atticus, an' he did it tostop us findin' things- he's crazy, I reckon, like they say, butAtticus, I swear to God he ain't ever harmed us, he ain't ever hurtus, he coulda cut my throat from ear to ear that night but he tried tomend my pants instead… he ain't ever hurt us, Atticus-"Atticus said, "Whoa, son," so gently that I was greatly heartened.
“……内森先生把水泥抹在了那棵树上，阿蒂克斯，他这么做是为了不让我们找到东西——我想，就像人们说的，他疯了，但是阿蒂克斯，我向上帝发誓，他从来没有伤害过我们，他从来没有伤害过我们，那天晚上他差点把我的喉咙从一只耳朵割到另一只耳朵，但他却试图补好我的裤子……他从来没有伤害过我们，阿蒂克斯——”阿蒂克斯说：“哇，儿子，”他的声音如此温柔，让我深受鼓舞。
　　It was obvious that he had not followed a word Jem said, for allAtticus said was, "You're right. We'd better keep this and the blanketto ourselves. Someday, maybe, Scout can thank him for covering herup.""Thank who?" I asked.
显然，他一句话也没听进杰姆说的话，因为阿蒂克斯只说了一句：“你说得对。我们最好还是把这个和毯子留给自己。也许哪天斯库特会感谢他给她盖被子。” “感谢谁？”我问。
　　"Boo Radley. You were so busy looking at the fire you didn't know itwhen he put the blanket around you."My stomach turned to water and I nearly threw up when Jem held outthe blanket and crept toward me. "He sneaked out of the house- turn'round- sneaked up, an' went like this!"Atticus said dryly, "Do not let this inspire you to further glory,Jeremy."Jem scowled, "I ain't gonna do anything to him," but I watched thespark of fresh adventure leave his eyes. "Just think, Scout," he said,"if you'd just turned around, you'da seen him."Calpurnia woke us at noon. Atticus had said we need not go to schoolthat day, we'd learn nothing after no sleep. Calpurnia said for usto try and clean up the front yard.
“呸，拉德利。你当时太忙着看火了，他给你盖毯子的时候你都没注意到。”杰姆递过毯子，蹑手蹑脚地朝我走来，我胃里翻江倒海，差点吐了。“他偷偷溜出屋子——转身——偷偷溜进来，就这么走了！”阿蒂克斯冷冷地说：“杰里米，别让这件事激励你再创辉煌。”杰姆皱着眉头说：“我不会对他怎么样的。”但我看到他眼里闪过一丝冒险的火花。“想想看，斯库特，”他说，“如果你当时转过身，你就能看见他了。”中午，卡尔珀尼亚叫醒了我们。阿蒂克斯说过我们那天不用去上学，不睡觉什么也学不到。卡尔珀尼亚让我们尽量把前院打扫干净。
　　Miss Maudie's sunhat was suspended in a thin layer of ice, like afly in amber, and we had to dig under the dirt for her hedge-clippers.
莫迪小姐的太阳帽悬在一层薄薄的冰层中，就像琥珀中的苍蝇一样，我们不得不在泥土下挖出她的修枝剪。
　　We found her in her back yard, gazing at her frozen charred azaleas. ...
　　"We're bringing back your things, Miss Maudie," said Jem. "We'reawful sorry."Miss Maudie looked around, and the shadow of her old grin crossedher face. "Always wanted a smaller house, Jem Finch. Gives me moreyard. Just think, I'll have more room for my azaleas now!""You ain't grievin', Miss Maudie?" I asked, surprised. Atticussaid her house was nearly all she had.
“我们把你的东西拿回来，莫迪小姐，”杰姆说。“我们非常抱歉。”莫迪小姐环顾四周，脸上掠过往日的笑容。“杰姆·芬奇，我一直想要一栋小一点的房子。这样院子更大。想想看，我现在有更多地方养杜鹃花了！”“莫迪小姐，你不难过吗？”我惊讶地问。阿蒂克斯说，这栋房子几乎就是她所有的家当了。
　　"Grieving, child? Why, I hated that old cow barn. Thought of settin'
“孩子，伤心吗？我恨那个老牛棚。想到要……
　　fire to it a hundred times myself, except they'd lock me up.""But-""Don't you worry about me, Jean Louise Finch. There are ways ofdoing things you don't know about. Why, I'll build me a little houseand take me a couple of roomers and- gracious, I'll have the finestyard in Alabama. Those Bellingraths'll look plain puny when I getstarted!"Jem and I looked at each other. "How'd it catch, Miss Maudie?" heasked.
我自己也想烧一百次，除非他们会把我关起来。”“可是——”“别担心我，琼·路易丝·芬奇。有些事你不知道。好啦，我要建个小房子，找几个房间，然后——我的天哪，我就能拥有阿拉巴马州最好的院子了。等我动手的时候，贝林格拉斯家那些家伙可就小巫见大巫了！”杰姆和我面面相觑。“莫迪小姐，它怎么会流行起来呢？”他问道。
　　"I don't know, Jem. Probably the flue in the kitchen. I kept afire in there last night for my potted plants. Hear you had someunexpected company last night, Miss Jean Louise.""How'd you know?""Atticus told me on his way to town this morning. Tell you thetruth, I'd like to've been with you. And I'd've had sense enough toturn around, too."Miss Maudie puzzled me. With most of her possessions gone and herbeloved yard a shambles, she still took a lively and cordialinterest in Jem's and my affairs.
“我不知道，杰姆。可能是厨房的烟道。昨晚我在那里生了个火，用来烤我的盆栽。听说你昨晚来了个意外的客人，琼·路易丝小姐。”“你怎么知道的？”“阿蒂克斯今天早上进城的时候告诉我的。说实话，我真想和你在一起。而且我也会很机灵地掉头回去的。”莫迪小姐让我很困惑。尽管她大部分的财产都没了，她心爱的院子也乱成一团，但她仍然对我和杰姆的事情表现出浓厚的兴趣。
　　She must have seen my perplexity. She said, "Only thing I worriedabout last night was all the danger and commotion it caused. Thiswhole neighborhood could have gone up. Mr. Avery'll be in bed for aweek- he's right stove up. He's too old to do things like that and Itold him so. Soon as I can get my hands clean and when StephanieCrawford's not looking, I'll make him a Lane cake. That Stephanie'sbeen after my recipe for thirty years, and if she thinks I'll giveit to her just because I'm staying with her she's got another thinkcoming."I reflected that if Miss Maudie broke down and gave it to her,Miss Stephanie couldn't follow it anyway. Miss Maudie had once letme see it: among other things, the recipe called for one large cupof sugar.
她肯定看出了我的困惑。她说：“昨晚我唯一担心的就是它造成的危险和骚乱。整个街区都可能被烧毁。艾弗里先生得卧床一周——他现在很累。他年纪太大了，做不了这种事，我早就跟他说过了。等我手脚干净了，趁斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德不注意的时候，我就给他做一个莱恩蛋糕。斯蒂芬妮追寻我的食谱已经三十年了，如果她以为只是因为我和她住在一起，我就会把食谱给她，那她就错了。”我想，如果莫迪小姐真的忍不住把食谱给了她，斯蒂芬妮小姐也照做不来。莫迪小姐曾经让我看过：食谱里除了其他东西之外，还要求一大杯糖。
　　It was a still day. The air was so cold and clear we heard thecourthouse clock clank, rattle and strain before it struck the hour.
那天风平浪静。空气清冷清冽，我们听见法院大钟在整点前发出的叮当声、嘎嘎声和嘎嘎声。
　　Miss Maudie's nose was a color I had never seen before, and I inquiredabout it.
莫迪小姐的鼻子是一种我从未见过的颜色，于是我询问了她。
　　"I've been out here since six o'clock," she said. "Should befrozen by now." She held up her hands. A network of tiny linescrisscrossed her palms, brown with dirt and dried blood.
“我从六点就出来了，”她说。“现在应该冻僵了。”她举起双手。掌心上布满了细密的纹路，上面满是泥土和干涸的血迹，呈现出棕色。
　　"You've ruined 'em," said Jem. "Why don't you get a colored man?"There was no note of sacrifice in his voice when he added, "OrScout'n'me, we can help you."Miss Maudie said, "Thank you sir, but you've got a job of your ownover there." She pointed to our yard.
“你把他们毁了，”杰姆说。“为什么不找个黑人？”他又补充道：“或者叫我侦察兵，我们可以帮你。”莫迪小姐说：“谢谢您，先生，不过你那边也有自己的工作。”她指着我们家的院子。
　　"You mean the Morphodite?" I asked. "Shoot, we can rake him up ina jiffy."Miss Maudie stared down at me, her lips moving silently. Suddenlyshe put her hands to her head and whooped. When we left her, she wasstill chuckling.
“你是说那个变形怪？”我问。“真厉害，我们一会儿就能把他弄出来。”莫迪小姐低头看着我，嘴唇无声地动着。突然，她双手抱头，欢呼起来。我们离开时，她还在咯咯地笑着。
　　Jem said he didn't know what was the matter with her- that wasjust Miss Maudie.
杰姆说他不知道她出了什么问题——那只是莫迪小姐。
　　9"You can just take that back, boy!"This order, given by me to Cecil Jacobs, was the beginning of arather thin time for Jem and me. My fists were clenched and I wasready to let fly. Atticus had promised me he would wear me out if heever heard of me fighting any more; I was far too old and too bigfor such childish things, and the sooner I learned to hold in, thebetter off everybody would be. I soon forgot.
“小子，你收回刚才的话！”这道命令是我下达给塞西尔·雅各布斯的，这标志着我和杰姆又一个艰难时期的开始。我握紧拳头，随时准备爆发。阿蒂克斯曾向我保证，要是他再听说我打架，一定会把我累垮；我年纪太大，个子太高，不适合做这种幼稚的事，我越早学会忍耐，对大家都越好。我很快就忘了。
　　Cecil Jacobs made me forget. He had announced in the schoolyardthe day before that Scout Finch's daddy defended niggers. I denied it,but told Jem.
塞西尔·雅各布斯让我忘了。他前一天在校园里宣布，斯库特·芬奇的爸爸为黑鬼辩护。我否认了，但告诉了杰姆。
　　"What'd he mean sayin' that?" I asked.
“他这么说是什么意思？”我问。
　　"Nothing," Jem said. "Ask Atticus, he'll tell you.""Do you defend niggers, Atticus?" I asked him that evening.
“没什么，”杰姆说。“问阿蒂克斯，他会告诉你的。”“你为黑鬼辩护吗，阿蒂克斯？”那天晚上我问他。
　　"Of course I do. Don't say nigger, Scout. That's common.""'s what everybody at school says.""From now on it'll be everybody less one-""Well if you don't want me to grow up talkin' that way, why do yousend me to school?"My father looked at me mildly, amusement in his eyes. Despite ourcompromise, my campaign to avoid school had continued in one form oranother since my first day's dose of it: the beginning of lastSeptember had brought on sinking spells, dizziness, and mild gastriccomplaints. I went so far as to pay a nickel for the privilege ofrubbing my head against the head of Miss Rachel's cook's son, whowas afflicted with a tremendous ringworm. It didn't take.
“我当然知道。斯库特，别说‘黑鬼’。这很常见。”“学校里每个人都这么说。”“从现在开始，每个人都少一个——”“既然你不想让我长大后也这么说，那你为什么还要送我去上学？”父亲温和地看着我，眼里带着一丝戏谑。尽管我们妥协了，但自从第一天上学以来，我逃学的念头就一直以各种形式持续着：去年九月初，我感觉身体一阵阵地发软，头晕目眩，还有轻微的胃痛。我甚至花了五分钱，就为了能用头蹭蹭雷切尔小姐厨子的儿子的头，他得了严重的癣。结果没成功。
　　But I was worrying another bone. "Do all lawyers defend n-Negroes,Atticus?""Of course they do, Scout.""Then why did Cecil say you defended niggers? He made it soundlike you were runnin' a still."Atticus sighed. "I'm simply defending a Negro- his name's TomRobinson. He lives in that little settlement beyond the town dump.
但我又担心了另一件事。“阿蒂克斯，所有律师都为黑人辩护吗？”“当然，斯库特。”“那塞西尔为什么说你为黑鬼辩护？他把这话说得好像你在开蒸馏器似的。”阿蒂克斯叹了口气。“我只是在为一个黑人辩护——他叫汤姆·罗宾逊。他住在镇上垃圾场对面的那个小定居点。”
　　He's a member of Calpurnia's church, and Cal knows his family well.
他是卡尔普尼亚教堂的成员，卡尔很了解他的家人。
　　She says they're clean-living folks. Scout, you aren't old enough tounderstand some things yet, but there's been some high talk aroundtown to the effect that I shouldn't do much about defending thisman. It's a peculiar case- it won't come to trial until summersession. John Taylor was kind enough to give us a postponement…""If you shouldn't be defendin' him, then why are you doin' it?""For a number of reasons," said Atticus. "The main one is, if Ididn't I couldn't hold up my head in town, I couldn't represent thiscounty in the legislature, I couldn't even tell you or Jem not to dosomething again.""You mean if you didn't defend that man, Jem and me wouldn't have tomind you any more?""That's about right.""Why?""Because I could never ask you to mind me again. Scout, simply bythe nature of the work, every lawyer gets at least one case in hislifetime that affects him personally. This one's mine, I guess. Youmight hear some ugly talk about it at school, but do one thing forme if you will: you just hold your head high and keep those fistsdown. No matter what anybody says to you, don't you let 'em get yourgoat. Try fighting with your head for a change… it's a good one,even if it does resist learning.""Atticus, are we going to win it?""No, honey.""Then why-""Simply because we were licked a hundred years before we startedis no reason for us not to try to win," Atticus said.
她说他们都是生活清白的人。斯库特，你还没到能理解某些事情的年纪，不过镇上有人在大肆宣扬，说我不应该为这个人辩护。这案子比较特殊——要到夏季开庭才开庭。约翰·泰勒好心给我们延期了……”“如果你不应该为他辩护，那你为什么还要做呢？”“原因有很多，”阿蒂克斯说。“最主要的是，如果我不做，我就在镇上抬不起头，就无法在立法机构代表这个县，甚至无法告诉你或杰姆不要再做这种事了。”“你是说，如果你不为那个人辩护，我和杰姆就不用再管你了？”“差不多就是这样。”“为什么？”“因为我再也不能让你管我了。”斯库特，就工作性质而言，每个律师一生中至少都会接到一个对他个人有影响的案子。我想，这个案子就是我的。你可能在学校里听到一些关于我的坏话，但如果你愿意，请为我做一件事：昂首挺胸，放下拳头。不管别人怎么说，都别让他们惹你生气。试着用你的理智去战斗……这很好，即使它阻碍你学习。”“阿蒂克斯，我们会赢吗？”“不会，亲爱的。”“那为什么——”“仅仅因为我们在开始之前一百年就被打败了，这不能成为我们不努力争取胜利的理由，”阿蒂克斯说。
　　"You sound like Cousin Ike Finch," I said. Cousin Ike Finch wasMaycomb County's sole surviving Confederate veteran. He wore a GeneralHood type beard of which he was inordinately vain. At least once ayear Atticus, Jem and I called on him, and I would have to kiss him.
“你听起来像艾克·芬奇表哥，”我说。艾克·芬奇表哥是梅科姆县唯一幸存的南方邦联老兵。他留着胡德式的将军胡须，对此他极其自负。我、阿蒂克斯、杰姆和我每年至少会去看望他一次，那时我得亲吻他。
　　It was horrible. Jem and I would listen respectfully to Atticus andCousin Ike rehash the war. "Tell you, Atticus," Cousin Ike wouldsay, "the Missouri Compromise was what licked us, but if I had to gothrough it agin I'd walk every step of the way there an' every stepback jist like I did before an' furthermore we'd whip 'em this time…now in 1864, when Stonewall Jackson came around by- I beg your pardon,young folks. Ol' Blue Light was in heaven then, God rest his saintlybrow…""Come here, Scout," said Atticus. I crawled into his lap andtucked my head under his chin. He put his arms around me and rocked megently. "It's different this time," he said. "This time we aren'tfighting the Yankees, we're fighting our friends. But remember this,no matter how bitter things get, they're still our friends and this isstill our home."With this in mind, I faced Cecil Jacobs in the schoolyard nextday: "You gonna take that back, boy?""You gotta make me first!" he yelled. "My folks said your daddywas a disgrace an' that nigger oughta hang from the water-tank!"I drew a bead on him, remembered what Atticus had said, then droppedmy fists and walked away, "Scout's a cow- ward!" ringing in my ears.
那真是太可怕了。杰姆和我会恭敬地听着阿蒂克斯和艾克表哥重提那场战争。“告诉你，阿蒂克斯，”艾克表哥会说，“密苏里妥协案打败了我们，但如果我不得不重来一次，我会一步步地走下去，就像以前一样，而且这次我们会打败他们……现在是1864年，石墙·杰克逊来了——年轻人，请原谅我。老蓝光党当时在天堂，愿上帝保佑他圣洁的额头……”“过来，斯库特，”阿蒂克斯说。我爬到他腿上，把头埋在他的下巴下。他搂着我，轻轻地摇着我。“这次不一样，”他说。 “这次我们不是跟北方佬打，而是跟我们的朋友打。但记住，无论情况变得多么糟糕，他们仍然是我们的朋友，这里仍然是我们的家。” 第二天，我牢记着这一点，在校园里对着塞西尔·雅各布斯问道：“小子，你收回刚才的话？” “你得先让我收回！”他吼道。“我爸妈说你爸爸丢人，那个黑鬼就该吊死在水箱上！” 我瞄准他，想起了阿蒂克斯说过的话，然后放下拳头走开了，“斯库特是个胆小鬼！”这句话在我耳边回响。
　　It was the first time I ever walked away from a fight.
这是我第一次逃避一场战斗。
　　Somehow, if I fought Cecil I would let Atticus down. Atticus sorarely asked Jem and me to do something for him, I could take beingcalled a coward for him. I felt extremely noble for having remembered,and remained noble for three weeks. Then Christmas came and disasterstruck.
不管怎样，如果我和塞西尔打架，我会让阿蒂克斯失望。阿蒂克斯很少要求我和杰姆为他做事，我可以忍受被他称为懦夫。我为自己当时的记忆感到无比高尚，并且在接下来的三个星期里一直保持着这种高尚。然后圣诞节来临，灾难降临了。
　　Jem and I viewed Christmas with mixed feelings. The good side wasthe tree and Uncle Jack Finch. Every Christmas Eve day we met UncleJack at Maycomb Junction, and he would spend a week with us.
杰姆和我对圣诞节的感受很复杂。好的一面是圣诞树和杰克·芬奇叔叔。每年圣诞夜，我们都会去梅科姆枢纽站遇见杰克叔叔，他会和我们一起度过一周。
　　A flip of the coin revealed the uncompromising lineaments of AuntAlexandra and Francis.
抛开硬币，我们可以看出亚历山德拉姑妈和弗朗西斯毫不妥协的性格。
　　I suppose I should include Uncle Jimmy, Aunt Alexandra's husband,but as he never spoke a word to me in my life except to say, "Getoff the fence," once, I never saw any reason to take notice of him.
我想我应该把吉米叔叔，也就是亚历山德拉婶婶的丈夫也算上，但是他除了说过一次“下围栏”之外，从来没有跟我说过一句话，所以我从来没有发现有什么理由去注意他。
　　Neither did Aunt Alexandra. Long ago, in a burst of friendliness,Aunty and Uncle Jimmy produced a son named Henry, who left home assoon as was humanly possible, married, and produced Francis. Henry andhis wife deposited Francis at his grandparents' every Christmas,then pursued their own pleasures.
亚历山德拉姑妈也一样。很久以前，姑妈和吉米叔叔一时兴起，生了一个名叫亨利的儿子。亨利一有机会就离家出走，结婚生子，生下了弗朗西斯。亨利和他的妻子每年圣诞节都把弗朗西斯送到祖父母家，然后各自寻欢作乐。
　　No amount of sighing could induce Atticus to let us spendChristmas day at home. We went to Finch's Landing every Christmas inmy memory. The fact that Aunty was a good cook was some compensationfor being forced to spend a religious holiday with Francis Hancock. Hewas a year older than I, and I avoided him on principle: he enjoyedeverything I disapproved of, and disliked my ingenuous diversions.
无论阿蒂克斯怎么叹气，也没能让我们在家过圣诞节。在我的记忆里，我们每年圣诞节都会去芬奇码头。姑姑厨艺不错，这多少弥补了我被迫和弗朗西斯·汉考克一起过宗教节日的遗憾。他比我大一岁，我原则上避开他：他喜欢我所有不赞同的东西，也讨厌我那些天真的消遣。
　　Aunt Alexandra was Atticus's sister, but when Jem told me aboutchangelings and siblings, I decided that she had been swapped atbirth, that my grandparents had perhaps received a Crawford instead ofa Finch. Had I ever harbored the mystical notions about mountains thatseem to obsess lawyers and judges, Aunt Alexandra would have beenanalogous to Mount Everest: throughout my early life, she was cold andthere.
亚历山德拉姑妈是阿蒂克斯的妹妹，但当杰姆告诉我关于换生灵和兄弟姐妹的事时，我断定她出生时就被调换了，我的祖父母或许生了个克劳福德而不是芬奇。如果我曾经对山怀有那种让律师和法官痴迷的神秘观念，亚历山德拉姑妈就会像珠穆朗玛峰一样：在我的整个童年时期，她都冰冷而坚定。
　　When Uncle Jack jumped down from the train Christmas Eve day, we hadto wait for the porter to hand him two long packages. Jem and I alwaysthought it funny when Uncle Jack pecked Atticus on the cheek; theywere the only two men we ever saw kiss each other. Uncle Jack shookhands with Jem and swung me high, but not high enough: Uncle Jackwas a head shorter than Atticus; the baby of the family, he wasyounger than Aunt Alexandra. He and Aunty looked alike, but Uncle Jackmade better use of his face: we were never wary of his sharp noseand chin.
圣诞夜那天，杰克叔叔从火车上跳下来，我们不得不等着搬运工递给他两个长长的包裹。杰克叔叔在阿蒂克斯脸颊上轻吻，杰姆和我总觉得好笑；他们是我们见过的仅有的两个男人接吻。杰克叔叔和杰姆握了握手，把我高高地举起来，但不够高：杰克叔叔比阿蒂克斯矮一个头；他是家里的宝贝，比亚历山德拉姑妈还小。他和姑妈长得像，但杰克叔叔更能利用他的脸：我们从来不会担心他尖尖的鼻子和下巴。
　　He was one of the few men of science who never terrified me,probably because he never behaved like a doctor. Whenever he performeda minor service for Jem and me, as removing a splinter from a foot, hewould tell us exactly what he was going to do, give us an estimationof how much it would hurt, and explain the use of any tongs heemployed. One Christmas I lurked in corners nursing a twisted splinterin my foot, permitting no one to come near me. When Uncle Jackcaught me, he kept me laughing about a preacher who hated going tochurch so much that every day he stood at his gate in hisdressing-gown, smoking a hookah and delivering five-minute sermonsto any passers-by who desired spiritual comfort. I interrupted to makeUncle Jack let me know when he would pull it out, but he held up abloody splinter in a pair of tweezers and said he yanked it while Iwas laughing, that was what was known as relativity.
他是少数几个从未让我感到害怕的科学家之一，可能是因为他行事行事从不像个医生。每当他为杰姆和我做些小事，比如从脚上取出刺，他都会准确地告诉我们他要做什么，估计一下会有多疼，并解释他用到的各种钳子的用法。有一年圣诞节，我躲在角落里，小心翼翼地护理着脚上扭曲的刺，不让任何人靠近。杰克叔叔抓到我时，他一直让我笑着说，有个牧师非常讨厌去教堂，他每天都穿着睡袍站在教堂门口，抽着水烟，给任何渴望精神慰藉的路人做五分钟的布道。我打断了他的话，想让杰克叔叔告诉我什么时候把它拔出来，但他用镊子夹起一根带血的碎片，说他在我大笑的时候把它拔出来了，这就是所谓的相对论。
　　"What's in those packages?" I asked him, pointing to the long thinparcels the porter had given him.
“这些包裹里是什么？”我指着搬运工给他的细长包裹问他。
　　"None of your business," he said.
“这不关你的事，”他说。
　　Jem said, "How's Rose Aylmer?"Rose Aylmer was Uncle Jack's cat. She was a beautiful yellowfemale Uncle Jack said was one of the few women he could standpermanently. He reached into his coat pocket and brought out somesnapshots. We admired them.
杰姆问：“罗斯·艾尔默怎么样了？”罗斯·艾尔默是杰克叔叔的猫。它是一只漂亮的黄色母猫，杰克叔叔说，它是他能永远忍受的少数几个女人之一。他把手伸进外套口袋，掏出几张快照。我们都很欣赏。
　　"She's gettin' fat," I said. ...
　　"I should think so. She eats all the leftover fingers and earsfrom the hospital.""Aw, that's a damn story," I said.
“我想是的。她把医院剩下的手指和耳朵都吃光了。”“噢，这真是个该死的故事，”我说。
　　"I beg your pardon?"Atticus said, "Don't pay any attention to her, Jack. She's tryingyou out. Cal says she's been cussing fluently for a week, now."Uncle Jack raised his eyebrows and said nothing. I was proceeding onthe dim theory, aside from the innate attractiveness of such words,that if Atticus discovered I had picked them up at school hewouldn't make me go.
“什么事？”阿蒂克斯说：“杰克，别理她。她在试探你。卡尔说她已经一个星期满口脏话了。”杰克叔叔扬了扬眉毛，什么也没说。我心里有一个模糊的念头，除了这些词儿本身就很有吸引力之外，那就是如果阿蒂克斯发现我在学校里学会了这些词儿，他就不会让我去学校了。
　　But at supper that evening when I asked him to pass the damn ham,please, Uncle Jack pointed at me. "See me afterwards, young lady,"he said.
可是那天晚上吃晚饭的时候，我请杰克叔叔递一下那该死的火腿，他却指着我说：“回头再见，小姐。”
　　When supper was over, Uncle Jack went to the livingroom and satdown. He slapped his thighs for me to come sit on his lap. I likedto smell him: he was like a bottle of alcohol and something pleasantlysweet. He pushed back my bangs and looked at me. "You're more likeAtticus than your mother," he said. "You're also growing out of yourpants a little.""I reckon they fit all right.""You like words like damn and hell now, don't you?"I said I reckoned so.
晚饭结束后，杰克叔叔走到客厅坐下。他拍拍大腿，让我坐到他腿上。我喜欢闻他的味道：他就像一瓶酒，混合着某种令人愉悦的甜味。他把我的刘海往后拨，看着我。“你更像阿蒂克斯，而不是你妈妈，”他说。“你的裤子也有点长了。”“我觉得还挺合身的。”“你现在喜欢用‘该死’和‘地狱’之类的词了，对吧？”我说我猜是的。
　　"Well I don't," said Uncle Jack, "not unless there's extremeprovocation connected with 'em. I'll be here a week, and I don'twant to hear any words like that while I'm here. Scout, you'll getin trouble if you go around saying things like that. You want togrow up to be a lady, don't you?"I said not particularly.
“好吧，我不，”杰克叔叔说，“除非他们真的惹了什么大麻烦。我在这里待一个星期，我不想听到任何这样的话。斯库特，你要是到处说这种话，你会有麻烦的。你长大后想当个淑女，对吧？”我回答说，其实没什么特别的。
　　"Of course you do. Now let's get to the tree."We decorated the tree until bedtime, and that night I dreamed of thetwo long packages for Jem and me. Next morning Jem and I dived forthem: they were from Atticus, who had written Uncle Jack to get themfor us, and they were what we had asked for.
“当然了。现在我们去装饰圣诞树吧。”我们装饰圣诞树一直到睡觉时间，那天晚上我梦见了杰姆和我收到的两个长包裹。第二天早上，我和杰姆赶紧去取：是阿蒂克斯寄来的，他写信给杰克叔叔，让他帮我们取，这正是我们要的东西。
　　"Don't point them in the house," said Atticus, when Jem aimed at apicture on the wall.
当杰姆把枪瞄准墙上的一幅画时，阿蒂克斯说道：“别把枪对着屋子里。”
　　"You'll have to teach 'em to shoot," said Uncle Jack.
“你得教他们射击，”杰克叔叔说。
　　"That's your job," said Atticus. "I merely bowed to the inevitable."It took Atticus's courtroom voice to drag us away from the tree.
“那是你的工作，”阿蒂克斯说，“我只是不得不接受不可避免的结果。”阿蒂克斯用法庭般的语气把我们从树边拉了起来。
　　He declined to let us take our air rifles to the Landing （I hadalready begun to think of shooting Francis） and said if we made onefalse move he'd take them away from us for good.
他不让我们把气枪带到登陆点（我已经开始想射杀弗朗西斯了），并说如果我们稍有不慎，他就会把气枪永远没收。
　　Finch's Landing consisted of three hundred and sixty-six stepsdown a high bluff and ending in a jetty. Farther down stream, beyondthe bluff, were traces of an old cotton landing, where Finch Negroeshad loaded bales and produce, unloaded blocks of ice, flour and sugar,farm equipment, and feminine apparel. A two-rut road ran from theriverside and vanished among dark trees. At the end of the road wasa two-storied white house with porches circling it upstairs anddownstairs. In his old age, our ancestor Simon Finch had built it toplease his nagging wife; but with the porches all resemblance toordinary houses of its era ended. The internal arrangements of theFinch house were indicative of Simon's guilelessness and theabsolute trust with which he regarded his offspring.
芬奇码头由三百六十六级台阶构成，沿着高耸的悬崖向下，最终到达一个码头。顺着溪流往下走，悬崖的另一边，是一片古老的棉花码头的遗迹，芬奇家的黑人曾在这里装卸货物和农产品，卸下冰块、面粉、糖、农具和女性服装。一条两车道的道路从河边延伸，消失在浓密的树林中。路的尽头是一栋两层的白色房屋，楼上楼下环绕着门廊。我们的祖先西蒙·芬奇在晚年为了取悦他那爱唠叨的妻子而建造了这栋房子；但有了门廊，它与那个时代的普通房屋就完全不一样了。芬奇家房子的内部布置体现了西蒙的坦率和他对后代的绝对信任。
　　There were six bedrooms upstairs, four for the eight femalechildren, one for Welcome Finch, the sole son, and one for visitingrelatives. Simple enough; but the daughters' rooms could be reachedonly by one staircase, Welcome's room and the guestroom only byanother. The Daughters' Staircase was in the ground-floor bedroom oftheir parents, so Simon always knew the hours of his daughters'
楼上有六间卧室，八个女儿住四间，独子韦尔科姆·芬奇住一间，还有一间给来访的亲戚住。房间布置得相当简朴；但女儿们的房间只能通过一段楼梯到达，韦尔科姆的房间和客房则只能通过另一段楼梯到达。女儿们的楼梯位于一楼父母的卧室，所以西蒙总是知道女儿们的起居时间。
　　nocturnal comings and goings.
夜间的来来往往。
　　There was a kitchen separate from the rest of the house, tacked ontoit by a wooden catwalk; in the back yard was a rusty bell on a pole,used to summon field hands or as a distress signal; a widow's walk wason the roof, but no widows walked there- from it, Simon oversaw hisoverseer, watched the river-boats, and gazed into the lives ofsurrounding landholders.
厨房与房子的其他部分分开，用一条木制的走道固定在厨房上；后院的杆子上挂着一个生锈的铃铛，用来召唤农场工人或作为求救信号；屋顶上有一条寡妇走道，但没有寡妇在那里走动——西蒙从那里监督他的监工，观察河船，并观察周围地主的生活。
　　There went with the house the usual legend about the Yankees: oneFinch female, recently engaged, donned her complete trousseau tosave it from raiders in the neighborhood; she became stuck in the doorto the Daughters' Staircase but was doused with water and finallypushed through. When we arrived at the Landing, Aunt Alexandrakissed Uncle Jack, Francis kissed Uncle Jack, Uncle Jimmy shookhands silently with Uncle Jack, Jem and I gave our presents toFrancis, who gave us a present. Jem felt his age and gravitated to theadults, leaving me to entertain our cousin. Francis was eight andslicked back his hair.
房子里流传着关于北方佬的常见传说：一只芬奇家的母狐狸，刚订婚不久，为了躲避邻居的劫掠，她穿戴了整套嫁妆；她被卡在女儿楼梯的门里，但被浇了水，最终还是被推了出去。我们到达楼梯平台时，亚历山大姑妈亲吻了杰克叔叔，弗朗西斯亲吻了杰克叔叔，吉米叔叔默默地和杰克叔叔握手，杰姆和我把礼物送给了弗朗西斯，弗朗西斯也给了我们一份礼物。杰姆觉得自己年纪大了，就和大人们在一起，留下我来招待我们的表弟。弗朗西斯八岁了，把头发梳得油光锃亮。
　　"What'd you get for Christmas?" I asked politely.
“你圣诞节收到了什么礼物？”我礼貌地问道。
　　"Just what I asked for," he said. Francis had requested a pair ofknee-pants, a red leather booksack, five shirts and an untied bow tie.
“正是我想要的，”他说。弗朗西斯想要的是一条及膝裤、一个红色皮书包、五件衬衫和一条解开的领结。
　　"That's nice," I lied. "Jem and me got air rifles, and Jem got achemistry set-""A toy one, I reckon.""No, a real one. He's gonna make me some invisible ink, and I'mgonna write to Dill in it."Francis asked what was the use of that.
“那太好了，”我撒谎说。“杰姆和我得到了气枪，杰姆还得到了一套化学实验装置——”“我估计是玩具。”“不，是真的。他要给我配一些隐形墨水，我要用它给迪尔写信。”弗朗西斯问那有什么用。
　　"Well, can't you just see his face when he gets a letter from mewith nothing in it? It'll drive him nuts."Talking to Francis gave me the sensation of settling slowly to thebottom of the ocean. He was the most boring child I ever met. As helived in Mobile, he could not inform on me to school authorities,but he managed to tell everything he knew to Aunt Alexandra, who inturn unburdened herself to Atticus, who either forgot it or gave mehell, whichever struck his fancy. But the only time I ever heardAtticus speak sharply to anyone was when I once heard him say,"Sister, I do the best I can with them!" It had something to do withmy going around in overalls.
“唉，你难道就不能看看他收到我空空如也的信时，脸上会是什么表情吗？他会疯掉的。”和弗朗西斯谈话让我感觉自己慢慢沉入海底。他是我见过的最无聊的孩子。因为他住在莫比尔，所以没法向学校举报我，但他设法把知道的一切都告诉了亚历山德拉姑妈，姑妈又向阿蒂克斯倾诉，阿蒂克斯要么忘了，要么把我骂了一顿，随他怎么想。但我唯一一次听到阿蒂克斯对别人厉声斥责，是一次他说：“姐姐，我已经尽力了！”这跟我穿工装裤到处跑有关。
　　Aunt Alexandra was fanatical on the subject of my attire. I couldnot possibly hope to be a lady if I wore breeches; when I said I coulddo nothing in a dress, she said I wasn't supposed to be doing thingsthat required pants. Aunt Alexandra's vision of my deportment involvedplaying with small stoves, tea sets, and wearing the Add-A-Pearlnecklace she gave me when I was born; furthermore, I should be a rayof sunshine in my father's lonely life. I suggested that one couldbe a ray of sunshine in pants just as well, but Aunty said that onehad to behave like a sunbeam, that I was born good but had grownprogressively worse every year. She hurt my feelings and set myteeth permanently on edge, but when I asked Atticus about it, hesaid there were already enough sunbeams in the family and to go onabout my business, he didn't mind me much the way I was.
亚历山德拉姑妈对我的着装非常执着。如果我穿马裤，我根本就不可能成为淑女；当我说我穿裙子什么也做不了时，她说我不应该做需要穿裤子的事情。亚历山德拉姑妈对我行为举止的期望是玩小炉子、茶具，戴着她出生时送给我的“珍珠项链”；此外，我应该成为父亲孤独生活中的一缕阳光。我建议，穿裤子也可以成为一缕阳光，但姑妈说，人必须表现得像一缕阳光，因为我生来就很好，但一年比一年差。她伤害了我的感情，让我一直咬牙切齿。但当我问阿蒂克斯这件事时，他说家里已经有足够多的阳光了，我该继续忙自己的事，他不太介意我这样。
　　At Christmas dinner, I sat at the little table in the diningroom;Jem and Francis sat with the adults at the dining table. Aunty hadcontinued to isolate me long after Jem and Francis graduated to thebig table. I often wondered what she thought I'd do, get up andthrow something? I sometimes thought of asking her if she would let mesit at the big table with the rest of them just once, I would prove toher how civilized I could be; after all, I ate at home every daywith no major mishaps. When I begged Atticus to use his influence,he said he had none- we were guests, and we sat where she told us tosit. He also said Aunt Alexandra didn't understand girls much, she'dnever had one.
圣诞晚宴上，我坐在餐厅的小桌子旁；杰姆和弗朗西斯则和大人们一起坐在餐桌旁。杰姆和弗朗西斯坐到大桌子后，姑姑仍然把我孤立起来。我常常想，她觉得我会怎么做？会不会站起来扔东西？我有时会想问她，能不能让我和其他人一起坐在大桌子上一次，好让她看看我有多文明；毕竟，我每天都在家吃饭，从没出过什么大事。我恳求阿蒂克斯利用他的影响力，他说他没有——我们是客人，她让我们坐哪儿就坐哪儿。他还说亚历山德拉姑姑不太懂女孩子，她从来就不懂。
　　But her cooking made up for everything: three kinds of meat,summer vegetables from her pantry shelves; peach pickles, two kinds ofcake and ambrosia constituted a modest Christmas dinner. Afterwards,the adults made for the livingroom and sat around in a dazedcondition. Jem lay on the floor, and I went to the back yard. "Puton your coat," said Atticus dreamily, so I didn't hear him.
但她做的菜弥补了一切：三种肉，从食品柜里挑出来的夏季蔬菜，桃子泡菜，两种蛋糕和一些美味佳肴，构成了一顿简单的圣诞晚餐。之后，大人们来到客厅，茫然地坐着。杰姆躺在地板上，我去了后院。“穿上你的外套，”阿蒂克斯恍惚地说，所以我没听见。
　　Francis sat beside me on the back steps. "That was the best yet,"I said.
弗朗西斯坐在后门台阶上我旁边。“这真是迄今为止最好的一次了，”我说。
　　"Grandma's a wonderful cook," said Francis. "She's gonna teach mehow.""Boys don't cook." I giggled at the thought of Jem in an apron.
“奶奶厨艺真棒，”弗朗西斯说，“她会教我的。”“男孩子不做饭。”想到杰姆系着围裙的样子，我不禁咯咯地笑了起来。
　　"Grandma says all men should learn to cook, that men oughta becareful with their wives and wait on 'em when they don't feel good,"said my cousin.
“奶奶说所有的男人都应该学会做饭，男人应该好好照顾自己的妻子，当她们心情不好的时候，就应该伺候她们。”我的表弟说道。
　　"I don't want Dill waitin' on me," I said. "I'd rather wait on him.""Dill?""Yeah. Don't say anything about it yet, but we're gonna getmarried as soon as we're big enough. He asked me last summer."Francis hooted.
“我不想让迪尔伺候我，”我说，“我宁愿伺候他。”“迪尔？”“是啊。现在先别说，不过等我们长大了就结婚。他去年夏天向我求婚了。”弗朗西斯大声叫道。
　　"What's the matter with him?" I asked. "Ain't anything the matterwith him.""You mean that little runt Grandma says stays with Miss Rachel everysummer?""That's exactly who I mean.""I know all about him," said Francis.
“他怎么了？”我问。“他没什么事吧？”“你是说奶奶说的那个每年夏天都和雷切尔小姐待在一起的小不点儿？”“我就是那个。”“我对他了如指掌，”弗朗西斯说。
　　"What about him?""Grandma says he hasn't got a home-""Has too, he lives in Meridian.""-he just gets passed around from relative to relative, and MissRachel keeps him every summer.""Francis, that's not so!"Francis grinned at me. "You're mighty dumb sometimes, Jean Louise.
“他怎么了？”“奶奶说他没家——”“他也有家，住在默里迪恩。”“——他只是被亲戚们转来转去，瑞秋小姐每年夏天都把他收留。”“弗朗西斯，不是这样的！”弗朗西斯咧嘴一笑，冲我说道。“琼·路易丝，你有时候真是蠢透了。”
　　Guess you don't know any better, though.""What do you mean?""If Uncle Atticus lets you run around with stray dogs, that's hisown business, like Grandma says, so it ain't your fault. I guess itain't your fault if Uncle Atticus is a nigger-lover besides, but I'mhere to tell you it certainly does mortify the rest of the family-""Francis, what the hell do you mean?""Just what I said. Grandma says it's bad enough he lets you allrun wild, but now he's turned out a nigger-lover we'll never be ableto walk the streets of Maycomb agin. He's ruinin' the family, that'swhat he's doin'."Francis rose and sprinted down the catwalk to the old kitchen. Ata safe distance he called, "He's nothin' but a nigger-lover!""He is not!" I roared. "I don't know what you're talkin' about,but you better cut it out this red hot minute!"I leaped off the steps and ran down the catwalk. It was easy tocollar Francis. I said take it back quick.
看来你也不懂事儿。”“你什么意思？”“如果阿蒂克斯叔叔让你和流浪狗到处乱跑，那是他自己的事，就像奶奶说的，所以不是你的错。我想，如果阿蒂克斯叔叔是个黑鬼爱好者，那也不是你的错，但我要告诉你，这确实让家里其他人丢脸——”“弗朗西斯，你到底是什么意思？”“我说的就是这个。奶奶说他让你们乱跑已经够糟糕了，现在他又变成了黑鬼爱好者，我们再也不能走在梅科姆的街道上了。”他毁了我们家，这就是他正在做的事。”弗朗西斯站起身，沿着狭窄的通道飞奔到旧厨房。在安全距离外，他喊道：“他不过是个黑鬼爱好者！”“他才不是！”我吼道。“我不知道你在说什么，但你最好现在就住手！”我跳下台阶，沿着狭窄的通道跑去。抓住弗朗西斯很容易。我说，赶紧收回你的话。
　　Francis jerked loose and sped into the old kitchen.
弗朗西斯猛地挣脱，冲进了旧厨房。
　　"Nigger-lover!" he yelled.
“黑鬼爱好者！”他喊道。
　　When stalking one's prey, it is best to take one's time. Saynothing, and as sure as eggs he will become curious and emerge.
追踪猎物时，最好慢慢来。什么也不说，猎物肯定会好奇地钻出来。
　　Francis appeared at the kitchen door. "You still mad, Jean Louise?" heasked tentatively.
弗朗西斯出现在厨房门口。“你还生气吗，琼·路易丝？”他试探性地问道。
　　"Nothing to speak of," I said. ...
　　Francis came out on the catwalk.
弗朗西斯走上 T 台。
　　"You gonna take it back, Fra- ancis?" But I was too quick on thedraw. Francis shot back into the kitchen, so I retired to the steps. Icould wait patiently. I had sat there perhaps five minutes when Iheard Aunt Alexandra speak: "Where's Francis?""He's out yonder in the kitchen.""He knows he's not supposed to play in there."Francis came to the door and yelled, "Grandma, she's got me inhere and she won't let me out!""What is all this, Jean Louise?"I looked up at Aunt Alexandra. "I haven't got him in there, Aunty, Iain't holdin' him.""Yes she is," shouted Francis, "she won't let me out!""Have you all been fussing?""Jean Louise got mad at me, Grandma," called Francis.
“弗朗西斯，你收回刚才的话？”但我反应太快了。弗朗西斯冲回厨房，我退到台阶上。我可以耐心等待。我坐了大概五分钟，就听到亚历山德拉姑妈开口：“弗朗西斯在哪儿？”“他在外面厨房里。”“他知道他不该在那儿玩。”弗朗西斯走到门口，喊道：“奶奶，她把我关在这里，不让我出去！”“怎么回事，琼·路易丝？”我抬头看着亚历山德拉姑妈。“姑妈，我没把他关进去，我没抓着他。”“是的，她在里面，”弗朗西斯喊道，“她不让我出去！”“你们吵闹了吗？”“奶奶，琼·路易丝生我的气了，”弗朗西斯喊道。
　　"Francis, come out of there! Jean Louise, if I hear another word outof you I'll tell your father. Did I hear you say hell a while ago?""Nome.""I thought I did. I'd better not hear it again."Aunt Alexandra was a back-porch listener. The moment she was outof sight Francis came out head up and grinning. "Don't you fool withme," he said.
“弗朗西斯，快出来！琼·路易丝，要是再让我听到你再说一句话，我就告诉你爸爸。刚才我是不是听到你说‘地狱’了？”“没有。”“我好像听到了。我最好别再听了。”亚历山德拉姑妈在后廊偷听。她一走远，弗朗西斯就抬起头来，咧嘴笑着。“别跟我开玩笑，”他说。
　　He jumped into the yard and kept his distance, kicking tufts ofgrass, turning around occasionally to smile at me. Jem appeared on theporch, looked at us, and went away. Francis climbed the mimosa tree,came down, put his hands in his pockets and strolled around theyard. "Hah!" he said. I asked him who he thought he was, Uncle Jack?
他跳进院子，跟我保持着距离，踢着草丛，偶尔回头对我笑笑。杰姆出现在门廊上，看了我们一眼，然后就走开了。弗朗西斯爬上含羞草树，又下来，双手插在口袋里，在院子里踱来踱去。“哈！”他说道。我问他，他以为自己是谁，杰克叔叔？
　　Francis said he reckoned I got told, for me to just sit there andleave him alone.
弗朗西斯说，他认为我已经被告知，只需坐在那里，别打扰他。
　　"I ain't botherin' you," I said. ...
　　Francis looked at me carefully, concluded that I had beensufficiently subdued, and crooned softly, "Nigger-lover…"This time, I split my knuckle to the bone on his front teeth. Myleft impaired, I sailed in with my right, but not for long. Uncle Jackpinned my arms to my sides and said, "Stand still!"Aunt Alexandra ministered to Francis, wiping his tears away with herhandkerchief, rubbing his hair, patting his cheek. Atticus, Jem, andUncle Jimmy had come to the back porch when Francis started yelling.
弗朗西斯仔细地打量着我，觉得我已经足够镇定了，便轻声哼道：“黑鬼情人……”这一次，我的指关节狠狠地打在他的门牙上，直戳骨头。我的左手无力，于是用右手猛击，但没坚持多久。杰克叔叔把我的胳膊按在身体两侧，说道：“站着别动！”亚历山德拉婶婶照料着弗朗西斯，用手帕擦去他的眼泪，揉搓他的头发，轻拍他的脸颊。阿蒂克斯、杰姆和吉米叔叔来到后廊，弗朗西斯突然大喊起来。
　　"Who started this?" said Uncle Jack.
“这是谁开始的？”杰克叔叔问。
　　Francis and I pointed at each other. "Grandma," he bawled, "shecalled me a whore-lady and jumped on me!""Is that true, Scout?" said Uncle Jack.
弗朗西斯和我互相指着对方。“奶奶，”他吼道，“她骂我是婊子，还朝我扑过来！”“斯库特，这是真的吗？”杰克叔叔问。
　　"I reckon so."When Uncle Jack looked down at me, his features were like AuntAlexandra's. "You know I told you you'd get in trouble if you usedwords like that? I told you, didn't I?""Yes sir, but-""Well, you're in trouble now. Stay there."I was debating whether to stand there or run, and tarried inindecision a moment too long: I turned to flee but Uncle Jack wasquicker. I found myself suddenly looking at a tiny ant struggling witha bread crumb in the grass.
“我想是的。”杰克叔叔低头看着我时，他的表情和亚历山德拉姑妈很像。“你知道我告诉过你，如果你说这种话，你会有麻烦的吧？我告诉过你，不是吗？”“是的，先生，但是——”“好吧，你现在有麻烦了。待在那儿。”我犹豫着是站着还是跑，犹豫了好一会儿：我转身想跑，但杰克叔叔动作更快。我突然发现自己正看着一只小蚂蚁在草丛里挣扎着寻找面包屑。
　　"I'll never speak to you again as long as I live! I hate you an'
“我这辈子都不会再跟你说话了！我恨你，
　　despise you an' hope you die tomorrow!" A statement that seemed toencourage Uncle Jack, more than anything. I ran to Atticus forcomfort, but he said I had it coming and it was high time we wenthome. I climbed into the back seat of the car without sayinggood-bye to anyone, and at home I ran to my room and slammed the door.
我鄙视你，希望你明天就死！”这句话似乎比什么都更能鼓舞杰克叔叔。我跑到阿迪克斯那里寻求安慰，但他说这是我应得的，我们该回家了。我没有跟任何人道别，就爬进了汽车后座，回到家后，我跑回房间，砰地关上了门。
　　Jem tried to say something nice, but I wouldn't let him.
杰姆想说些好话，但我不让他说。
　　When I surveyed the damage there were only seven or eight red marks,and I was reflecting upon relativity when someone knocked on the door.
当我查看损坏情况时，只发现七八个红色痕迹，当我正在思考相对论时，有人敲门。
　　I asked who it was; Uncle Jack answered.
我问是谁；杰克叔叔回答了。
　　"Go away!"Uncle Jack said if I talked like that he'd lick me again, so I wasquiet. When he entered the room I retreated to a corner and turnedmy back on him. "Scout," he said, "do you still hate me?""Go on, please sir.""Why, I didn't think you'd hold it against me," he said. "I'mdisappointed in you- you had that coming and you know it.""Didn't either.""Honey, you can't go around calling people-""You ain't fair," I said, "you ain't fair."Uncle Jack's eyebrows went up. "Not fair? How not?""You're real nice, Uncle Jack, an' I reckon I love you even afterwhat you did, but you don't understand children much."Uncle Jack put his hands on his hips and looked down at me. "And whydo I not understand children, Miss Jean Louise? Such conduct asyours required little understanding. It was obstreperous, disorderlyand abusive-""You gonna give me a chance to tell you? I don't mean to sass you,I'm just tryin' to tell you."Uncle Jack sat down on the bed. His eyebrows came together, and hepeered up at me from under them. "Proceed," he said.
“走开！”杰克叔叔说如果我再这样说话，他又会揍我，所以我保持沉默。他一进房间，我便躲到角落里，背对着他。“斯库特，”他说，“你还恨我吗？”“说吧，先生，求你了。”“哎，我没想到你会记仇，”他说。“我对你很失望——你自作自受，你也知道。”“我也没有。”“亲爱的，你不能到处叫人——”“你不公平，”我说，“你不公平。”杰克叔叔的眉毛扬了起来。“不公平？怎么不公平？”“你人真好，杰克叔叔，我想即使你做了那样的事，我还是爱你的，但你不太懂孩子。”杰克叔叔双手叉腰，低头看着我。 “为什么我不理解孩子，琼·路易丝小姐？像你这样的行为根本不需要理解。它吵闹、无序、虐待——” “你能给我机会告诉你吗？我不是故意要跟你顶嘴，我只是想告诉你。”杰克叔叔在床上坐了下来。他皱起眉头，从眉毛下抬头看着我。“说下去，”他说。
　　I took a deep breath. "Well, in the first place you never stopped togimme a chance to tell you my side of it- you just lit right intome. When Jem an' I fuss Atticus doesn't ever just listen to Jem's sideof it, he hears mine too, an' in the second place you told me never touse words like that except in ex-extreme provocation, and Francisprovocated me enough to knock his block off-"Uncle Jack scratched his head. "What was your side of it, Scout?""Francis called Atticus somethin', an' I wasn't about to take it offhim.""What did Francis call him?""A nigger-lover. I ain't very sure what it means, but the wayFrancis said it- tell you one thing right now, Uncle Jack, I'll be-I swear before God if I'll sit there and let him say somethin' aboutAtticus.""He called Atticus that?""Yes sir, he did, an' a lot more. Said Atticus'd be the ruination ofthe family an' he let Jem an me run wild…"From the look on Uncle Jack's face, I thought I was in for it again.
我深吸一口气。“嗯，首先，你根本没给我机会说说我这边的情况——你直接冲我发火了。我和杰姆吵架的时候，阿蒂克斯从来不会只听杰姆那边的意见，他也会听我的。其次，你告诉过我，除非极端挑衅，否则永远不要说这样的话，而弗朗西斯把我激怒得头都掉了——”杰克叔叔挠了挠头。 “你是怎么想的，斯库特？”“弗朗西斯叫阿蒂克斯什么，我可没打算收下他。”“弗朗西斯叫他什么？”“黑鬼爱好者。我不太明白是什么意思，但弗朗西斯这么说——杰克叔叔，我现在就告诉你，我——我敢对上帝发誓，如果我坐在那儿，听他说点关于阿蒂克斯的事，我一定会的。”“他那样叫阿蒂克斯？”“是的，先生，他确实这么说过，而且还说了好多别的。他说阿蒂克斯会毁掉我们家，他还放任杰姆和我胡作非为……”从杰克叔叔脸上的表情来看，我以为我又要倒霉了。
　　When he said, "We'll see about this," I knew Francis was in for it.
当他说“我们会考虑的”时，我知道弗朗西斯要面对这件事了。
　　"I've a good mind to go out there tonight.""Please sir, just let it go. Please.""I've no intention of letting it go," he said. "Alexandra shouldknow about this. The idea of- wait'll I get my hands on that boy…""Uncle Jack, please promise me somethin', please sir. Promise youwon't tell Atticus about this. He- he asked me one time not to letanything I heard about him make me mad, an' I'd ruther him think wewere fightin' about somethin' else instead. Please promise…""But I don't like Francis getting away with something like that-""He didn't. You reckon you could tie up my hand? It's still bleedin'
“我今晚很想去那儿。”“先生，求求你，放手吧。求求你。”“我根本不想放手，”他说。“亚历山德拉应该知道这件事。关于——等我找到那个男孩……”“杰克叔叔，请答应我，先生，求求你。答应你不告诉阿蒂克斯这件事。他——他曾经让我不要因为听到任何关于他的事而生气，我宁愿让他以为我们是为了别的事吵架。请答应……”“但我不喜欢弗朗西斯因为那样的事而逍遥法外——”“他没有。你觉得你能绑住我的手吗？它还在流血。”
　　some.""Of course I will, baby. I know of no hand I would be more delightedto tie up. Will you come this way?"Uncle Jack gallantly bowed me to the bathroom. While he cleanedand bandaged my knuckles, he entertained me with a tale about afunny nearsighted old gentleman who had a cat named Hodge, and whocounted all the cracks in the sidewalk when he went to town. "Therenow," he said. "You'll have a very unladylike scar on yourwedding-ring finger.""Thank you sir. Uncle Jack?""Ma'am?""What's a whore-lady?"Uncle Jack plunged into another long tale about an old PrimeMinister who sat in the House of Commons and blew feathers in theair and tried to keep them there when all about him men were losingtheir heads. I guess he was trying to answer my question, but hemade no sense whatsoever.
“当然会的，宝贝。我想不出还有什么手比这更让我高兴的了。你跟我来这边好吗？”杰克叔叔殷勤地鞠躬，把我领到浴室。他一边清洗和包扎我的指关节，一边给我讲故事，讲的是一位滑稽的近视老先生，他养了一只名叫霍奇的猫，每次进城都会数遍人行道上所有的裂缝。“好了，”他说，“你的结婚戒指上会留下一道很不淑女的疤痕。”“谢谢您，先生。杰克叔叔？”“夫人？”“妓女是什么？”杰克叔叔又开始讲一个长篇故事，讲的是一位老首相坐在下议院里，一边把羽毛吹得乱七八糟，一边努力不让周围的人失去理智。我猜他是想回答我的问题，但他讲的完全没有道理。
　　Later, when I was supposed to be in bed, I went down the hall fora drink of water and heard Atticus and Uncle Jack in the livingroom:
后来，当我该上床睡觉的时候，我走到走廊去喝水，听到阿蒂克斯和杰克叔叔在客厅里：
　　"I shall never marry, Atticus.""Why?""I might have children."Atticus said, "You've a lot to learn, Jack.""I know. Your daughter gave me my first lessons this afternoon.
“我永远不会结婚，阿蒂克斯。”“为什么？”“我可能会有孩子。”阿蒂克斯说：“你还有很多东西要学，杰克。”“我知道。你女儿今天下午给我上了第一课。
　　She said I didn't understand children much and told me why. She wasquite right. Atticus, she told me how I should have treated her- ohdear, I'm so sorry I romped on her."Atticus chuckled. "She earned it, so don't feel too remorseful."I waited, on tenterhooks, for Uncle Jack to tell Atticus my sideof it. But he didn't. He simply murmured, "Her use of bathroominvective leaves nothing to the imagination. But she doesn't knowthe meaning of half she says- she asked me what a whore-lady was…""Did you tell her?""No, I told her about Lord Melbourne.""Jack! When a child asks you something, answer him, for goodness'
她说我不太懂孩子，还告诉我原因。她说得对。阿蒂克斯，她告诉我应该怎么对她——哦，天哪，我很抱歉我欺负了她。”阿蒂克斯轻笑一声。“她自作自受，所以别太后悔。”我焦急地等着杰克叔叔告诉我这件事。但他没有。他只是低声说：“她那句脏话简直让人匪夷所思。但她自己也不明白自己说了什么——她问我‘妓女’是什么……”“你告诉她了吗？”“没有，我告诉她墨尔本勋爵的事。”“杰克！当孩子问你问题时，看在上帝的份上，一定要回答他。”
　　sake. But don't make a production of it. Children are children, butthey can spot an evasion quicker than adults, and evasion simplymuddles 'em. No," my father mused, "you had the right answer thisafternoon, but the wrong reasons. Bad language is a stage all childrengo through, and it dies with time when they learn they're notattracting attention with it. Hotheadedness isn't. Scout's got tolearn to keep her head and learn soon, with what's in store for herthese next few months. She's coming along, though. Jem's getting olderand she follows his example a good bit now. All she needs isassistance sometimes.""Atticus, you've never laid a hand on her.""I admit that. So far I've been able to get by with threats. Jack,she minds me as well as she can. Doesn't come up to scratch half thetime, but she tries.""That's not the answer," said Uncle Jack.
就为了这个。不过别装腔作势。孩子毕竟是孩子，但他们比大人能更快地发现回避，而回避只会让他们糊涂。不，”我父亲沉思道，“你今天下午的答案是对的，但理由不对。脏话是所有孩子都会经历的一个阶段，随着时间的推移，当他们明白说脏话并不能引起注意时，它就会消失。但性子急躁则不然。斯库特必须学会保持冷静，而且要尽快吸取教训，因为接下来的几个月她将要面对各种情况。不过她正在进步。杰姆长大了，她现在也开始效仿他了。有时她需要的只是帮助。”“阿蒂克斯，你从来没碰过她。”“我承认。到目前为止，我还能靠威胁来应付。杰克，她已经尽力听我的了。虽然有一半时间表现得不太好，但她还是会努力的。”“这不是解决办法，”杰克叔叔说。
　　"No, the answer is she knows I know she tries. That's what makes thedifference. What bothers me is that she and Jem will have to absorbsome ugly things pretty soon. I'm not worried about Jem keeping hishead, but Scout'd just as soon jump on someone as look at him if herpride's at stake…"I waited for Uncle Jack to break his promise. He still didn't.
“不，答案是她知道我知道她会努力。这才是关键所在。让我担心的是，她和杰姆很快就要承受一些不愉快的事情了。我倒不担心杰姆能否保持冷静，但如果事关自尊，斯库特会毫不犹豫地扑上去，而不是盯着别人看……”我等着杰克叔叔食言。他还是没有。
　　"Atticus, how bad is this going to be? You haven't had too muchchance to discuss it.""It couldn't be worse, Jack. The only thing we've got is a blackman's word against the Ewells'. The evidence boils down to you-did-I-didn't. The jury couldn't possibly be expected to take TomRobinson's word against the Ewells'- are you acquainted with theEwells?"Uncle Jack said yes, he remembered them. He described them toAtticus, but Atticus said, "You're a generation off. The presentones are the same, though.""What are you going to do, then?""Before I'm through, I intend to jar the jury a bit- I think we'llhave a reasonable chance on appeal, though. I really can't tell atthis stage, Jack. You know, I'd hoped to get through life without acase of this kind, but John Taylor pointed at me and said, 'You'reIt.'""Let this cup pass from you, eh?""Right. But do you think I could face my children otherwise? Youknow what's going to happen as well as I do, Jack, and I hope and prayI can get Jem and Scout through it without bitterness, and most ofall, without catching Maycomb's usual disease. Why reasonable peoplego stark raving mad when anything involving a Negro comes up, issomething I don't pretend to understand… I just hope that Jem andScout come to me for their answers instead of listening to the town. Ihope they trust me enough… Jean Louise?"My scalp jumped. I stuck my head around the corner. "Sir?""Go to bed."I scurried to my room and went to bed. Uncle Jack was a prince ofa fellow not to let me down. But I never figured out how Atticusknew I was listening, and it was not until many years later that Irealized he wanted me to hear every word he said.
“阿蒂克斯，这会有多糟？你还没机会讨论呢。”“杰克，不可能更糟了。我们唯一掌握的，是一个黑人对尤厄尔家的指控。证据归结起来就是“你做了，我没做”。陪审团不可能相信汤姆·罗宾逊对尤厄尔家的指控——你认识尤厄尔家吗？”杰克叔叔说认识，他记得他们。他把这些事描述给阿蒂克斯听，阿蒂克斯却说：“你们差了一代人。不过现在的人都一样。”“那你打算怎么办？”“在我讲完之前，我打算稍微动一下陪审团——不过我觉得我们上诉的时候应该还有点胜算。杰克，我现在真的没法断言。你知道吗，我本来希望这辈子都别碰这种案子，但约翰·泰勒指着我说：‘你就是那个人。’”“把这杯酒从你手里拿开，嗯？”“没错。但你觉得，不这样，我还能面对我的孩子们吗？杰克，你和我一样清楚接下来会发生什么，我希望并祈祷我能帮助杰姆和斯库特安然度过这一切，最重要的是，不要染上梅科姆镇的通病。为什么理智的人一提到黑人就会变得疯狂，我并不假装理解……我只希望杰姆和斯库特能来找我。”而不是听镇上的人说话，而是去等待他们的答案。我希望他们足够信任我……琼·路易丝？”我的头皮一阵抽搐。我把头探到角落里。“先生？”“去睡觉。”我匆匆跑回房间，上床睡觉。杰克叔叔真是个好人，从不让我失望。但我始终不明白阿蒂克斯怎么知道我在听，直到多年以后我才意识到，他想让我听进他说的每一个字。
　　10Atticus was feeble: he was nearly fifty. When Jem and I asked himwhy he was so old, he said he got started late, which we feltreflected upon his abilities and manliness. He was much older than theparents of our school contemporaries, and there was nothing Jem or Icould say about him when our classmates said, "My father-"Jem was football crazy. Atticus was never too tired to playkeep-away, but when Jem wanted to tackle him Atticus would say, "I'mtoo old for that, son."Our father didn't do anything. He worked in an office, not in adrugstore. Atticus did not drive a dump-truck for the county, he wasnot the sheriff, he did not farm, work in a garage, or do anythingthat could possibly arouse the admiration of anyone.
阿蒂克斯体弱多病：他快五十岁了。我和杰姆问他为什么这么老，他说他起步晚，我们觉得这体现了他的能力和男子气概。他比我们同班同学的父母年纪大得多，所以当同学们说“我爸爸——”时，我和杰姆都无话可说。杰姆是个橄榄球迷。阿蒂克斯从来不会累到玩不了守门员，但当杰姆想擒抱他时，阿蒂克斯就会说：“儿子，我太老了，玩不了。”我们的父亲什么也不做。他在办公室工作，而不是在药店工作。阿蒂克斯没有为县里开过翻斗车，他不是警长，他不务农，也不在修车厂工作，他什么都做不了，什么能引起别人钦佩的事都不做。
　　Besides that, he wore glasses. He was nearly blind in his lefteye, and said left eyes were the tribal curse of the Finches. Wheneverhe wanted to see something well, he turned his head and looked fromhis right eye.
除此之外，他还戴着眼镜。他的左眼几乎失明，据说左眼是芬奇家族的诅咒。每当他想看清楚什么东西时，他都会转过头，用右眼看。
　　He did not do the things our schoolmates' fathers did: he never wenthunting, he did not play poker or fish or drink or smoke. He sat inthe livingroom and read.
他不像我们同学的父亲那样：他从不去打猎，不玩扑克，不钓鱼，不喝酒，不抽烟。他只是坐在客厅里看书。
　　With these attributes, however, he would not remain as inconspicuousas we wished him to: that year, the school buzzed with talk abouthim defending Tom Robinson, none of which was complimentary. Aftermy bout with Cecil Jacobs when I committed myself to a policy ofcowardice, word got around that Scout Finch wouldn't fight any more,her daddy wouldn't let her. This was not entirely correct: Iwouldn't fight publicly for Atticus, but the family was privateground. I would fight anyone from a third cousin upwards tooth andnail. Francis Hancock, for example, knew that.
然而，正因为这些特点，他才没能像我们希望的那样低调：那一年，学校里到处都在谈论他为汤姆·罗宾逊辩护，但这些话没有一句是褒义的。在我和塞西尔·雅各布斯那场打斗之后，我决定采取懦弱的策略，于是传言说斯库特·芬奇不会再打了，她爸爸不让她打。这话并不完全正确：我不会公开为阿蒂克斯打架，但家里是私人空间。我会和任何人打架，从三代堂兄堂妹开始，到三代堂兄堂妹以上，我都会拼死一搏。比如弗朗西斯·汉考克就知道这一点。
　　When he gave us our air-rifles Atticus wouldn't teach us to shoot.
当阿提克斯给我们气枪时，他却不教我们射击。
　　Uncle Jack instructed us in the rudiments thereof; he said Atticuswasn't interested in guns. Atticus said to Jem one day, "I'd ratheryou shot at tin cans in the back yard, but I know you'll go afterbirds. Shoot all the bluejays you want, if you can hit 'em, butremember it's a sin to kill a mockingbird."That was the only time I ever heard Atticus say it was a sin to dosomething, and I asked Miss Maudie about it.
杰克叔叔教了我们一些基本知识；他说阿蒂克斯对枪不感兴趣。有一天，阿蒂克斯对杰姆说：“我宁愿你在后院打锡罐，但我知道你会去打鸟。只要你能打中蓝鸟，你想打多少就打多少，但记住，杀死一只知更鸟是罪过。”那是我唯一一次听到阿蒂克斯说做某事是罪过，于是我问了莫迪小姐。
　　"Your father's right," she said. "Mockingbirds don't do one thingbut make music for us to enjoy. They don't eat up people's gardens,don't nest in corncribs, they don't do one thing but sing their heartsout for us. That's why it's a sin to kill a mockingbird.""Miss Maudie, this is an old neighborhood, ain't it?""Been here longer than the town.""Nome, I mean the folks on our street are all old. Jem and me'sthe only children around here. Mrs. Dubose is close on to a hundredand Miss Rachel's old and so are you and Atticus.""I don't call fifty very old," said Miss Maudie tartly. "Not beingwheeled around yet, am I? Neither's your father. But I must sayProvidence was kind enough to burn down that old mausoleum of mine,I'm too old to keep it up- maybe you're right, Jean Louise, this isa settled neighborhood. You've never been around young folks much,have you?""Yessum, at school.""I mean young grown-ups. You're lucky, you know. You and Jem havethe benefit of your father's age. If your father was thirty you'd findlife quite different.""I sure would. Atticus can't do anything…""You'd be surprised," said Miss Maudie. "There's life in him yet.""What can he do?""Well, he can make somebody's will so airtight can't anybodymeddle with it.""Shoot…""Well, did you know he's the best checker-player in this town?
“你父亲说得对，”她说。“反舌鸟除了为我们演奏美妙的乐曲外，什么也不做。它们不会吃掉别人的菜园，也不会在玉米仓里筑巢，它们除了为我们尽情歌唱外，什么也不做。所以杀死一只反舌鸟是罪过。”“莫迪小姐，这是一个古老的街区，对吧？”“它在这里的历史比这座镇子还要久。”“不，我的意思是，我们这条街上的人都老了。杰姆和我是这附近唯一的孩子。杜博斯太太快一百岁了，雷切尔小姐也老了，你和阿蒂克斯也是。”“我不认为五十岁很老，”莫迪小姐尖刻地说。 “我还没被推着轮椅四处走动呢，对吧？你爸爸也是。不过我得说，老天爷真是仁慈，把我那座老旧的陵墓烧毁了，我年纪太大了，养不起它了——也许你说得对，琼·路易丝，这里是个安定的社区。你从来没怎么接触过年轻人吧？”“是的，夫人，在学校里。”“我是说年轻的成年人。你知道吗，你很幸运。你和杰姆受益于你父亲的年纪。如果你父亲三十岁，你们的生活就会截然不同了。”“我肯定会的。阿蒂克斯什么也做不了……”“你会大吃一惊的，”莫迪小姐说。“他还活着呢。”“他能做什么？”“嗯，他能把人的遗嘱写得严密无懈可击，谁也别想碰它。”“该死……”“那你知道他是镇上最棒的跳棋选手吗？”
　　Why, down at the Landing when we were coming up, Atticus Finch couldbeat everybody on both sides of the river.""Good Lord, Miss Maudie, Jem and me beat him all the time.""It's about time you found out it's because he lets you. Did youknow he can play a Jew's Harp?"This modest accomplishment served to make me even more ashamed ofhim.
哎，我们上岸的时候，在码头那边，阿蒂克斯·芬奇能打败河两岸的所有人。”“我的天哪，莫迪小姐，杰姆和我总是赢他。”“你也该明白了，是因为他让你赢的。你知道他会弹口琴吗？”这小小的成就反而让我更加为他感到羞愧。
　　"Well…" she said. ...
　　"Well, what, Miss Maudie?""Well nothing. Nothing- it seems with all that you'd be proud ofhim. Can't everybody play a Jew's Harp. Now keep out of the way of thecarpenters. You'd better go home, I'll be in my azaleas and can'twatch you. Plank might hit you."I went to the back yard and found Jem plugging away at a tin can,which seemed stupid with all the bluejays around. I returned to thefront yard and busied myself for two hours erecting a complicatedbreastworks at the side of the porch, consisting of a tire, anorange crate, the laundry hamper, the porch chairs, and a small U.S.
“怎么了，莫迪小姐？”“嗯，没什么。没什么——看来即使这样，你也会为他感到骄傲。难道每个人都会弹口琴吗？现在，别挡着木匠的路。你最好回家，我去种杜鹃花了，没法看着你。木板会砸到你的。”我走到后院，发现杰姆正在用力地敲一个铁皮罐头，周围都是蓝鸟，这显得有点蠢。我回到前院，忙活了两个小时，在门廊边上搭起了一个复杂的防护墙，里面装着一个轮胎、一个橘色板条箱、洗衣篮、门廊椅子，还有一小块美国……
　　flag Jem gave me from a popcorn box.
杰姆从爆米花盒里给了我一面旗帜。
　　When Atticus came home to dinner he found me crouched down aimingacross the street. "What are you shooting at?""Miss Maudie's rear end."Atticus turned and saw my generous target bending over her bushes.
阿蒂克斯回家吃饭时，发现我正蹲在街对面瞄准。“你瞄准什么？”“莫迪小姐的屁股。”阿蒂克斯转过身，看到我那颗大目标正俯身在灌木丛上。
　　He pushed his hat to the back of his head and crossed the street.
他把帽子推到脑后，然后穿过了马路。
　　"Maudie," he called, "I thought I'd better warn you. You're inconsiderable peril."Miss Maudie straightened up and looked toward me. She said,"Atticus, you are a devil from hell."When Atticus returned he told me to break camp. "Don't you everlet me catch you pointing that gun at anybody again," he said.
“莫迪，”他喊道，“我想我最好警告你。你是个微不足道的危险人物。”莫迪小姐直起身子，看着我。她说：“阿蒂克斯，你是地狱来的魔鬼。”阿蒂克斯回来后，让我收拾营地。“别让我再看到你用枪指着任何人，”他说。
　　I wished my father was a devil from hell. I sounded out Calpurnia onthe subject. "Mr. Finch? Why, he can do lots of things.""Like what?" I asked.
我真希望我爸爸是个地狱魔鬼。我试探着卡尔珀尼亚。“芬奇先生？哎呀，他能做很多事。”“比如什么？”我问。
　　Calpurnia scratched her head. "Well, I don't rightly know," shesaid.
卡尔珀尼亚挠了挠头。“呃，我也不太清楚。”她说。
　　Jem underlined it when he asked Atticus if he was going out forthe Methodists and Atticus said he'd break his neck if he did, hewas just too old for that sort of thing. The Methodists were trying topay off their church mortgage, and had challenged the Baptists to agame of touch football. Everybody in town's father was playing, itseemed, except Atticus. Jem said he didn't even want to go, but he wasunable to resist football in any form, and he stood gloomily on thesidelines with Atticus and me watching Cecil Jacobs's father maketouchdowns for the Baptists.
杰姆问阿蒂克斯是否要为卫理公会效力，阿蒂克斯强调了这一点。阿蒂克斯说，如果他真的这么做，他会摔断脖子的，他年纪太大了，不适合做这种事。卫理公会正忙着还教堂的抵押贷款，于是向浸信会挑战了一场触身式橄榄球赛。镇上每个人的父亲似乎都在玩，除了阿蒂克斯。杰姆说他根本不想去，但他无法抗拒任何形式的橄榄球，于是他和阿蒂克斯还有我一起沮丧地站在场边，看着塞西尔·雅各布斯的父亲为浸信会踢得触地得分。
　　One Saturday Jem and I decided to go exploring with our air-riflesto see if we could find a rabbit or a squirrel. We had gone about fivehundred yards beyond the Radley Place when I noticed Jem squintingat something down the street. He had turned his head to one side andwas looking out of the corners of his eyes.
一个星期六，我和杰姆决定带着气枪出去探险，看看能不能找到兔子或松鼠。我们走出拉德利家大约五百码的时候，我注意到杰姆正眯着眼睛看着街那头的什么东西。他把头扭向一边，用眼角余光打量着周围的一切。
　　"Whatcha looking at?""That old dog down yonder," he said.
“你在看什么？”“那边那只老狗，”他说。
　　"That's old Tim Johnson, ain't it?""Yeah."Tim Johnson was the property of Mr. Harry Johnson who drove theMobile bus and lived on the southern edge of town. Tim was aliver-colored bird dog, the pet of Maycomb.
“那是老蒂姆·约翰逊，对吧？”“是的。”蒂姆·约翰逊是哈里·约翰逊先生的财产，他开着莫比尔巴士，住在镇子的南边。蒂姆是条鲜红色的猎鸟犬，是梅科姆镇的宠物。
　　"What's he doing?""I don't know, Scout. We better go home.""Aw Jem, it's February.""I don't care, I'm gonna tell Cal."We raced home and ran to the kitchen.
“他在干什么？”“我不知道，斯库特。我们最好回家。”“哦，杰姆，现在是二月。”“我不管，我要告诉卡尔。”我们飞奔回家，冲进厨房。
　　"Cal," said Jem, "can you come down the sidewalk a minute?""What for, Jem? I can't come down the sidewalk every time you wantme.""There's somethin' wrong with an old dog down yonder."Calpurnia sighed. "I can't wrap up any dog's foot now. There'ssome gauze in the bathroom, go get it and do it yourself."Jem shook his head. "He's sick, Cal. Something's wrong with him.""What's he doin', trying to catch his tail?""No, he's doin' like this."Jem gulped like a goldfish, hunched his shoulders and twitched historso. "He's goin' like that, only not like he means to.""Are you telling me a story, Jem Finch?" Calpurnia's voice hardened.
“卡尔，”杰姆说，“你能从人行道过来一下吗？”“干什么，杰姆？你每次让我过来，我总不能每次都过来吧。”“那边有条老狗出事了。”卡尔珀尼亚叹了口气。“我现在没法包扎狗的脚。卫生间里有纱布，你自己去拿来包扎吧。”杰姆摇了摇头。“它病了，卡尔。它出事了。”“它在干什么？想抓自己的尾巴吗？”“不，它这样。”杰姆像金鱼一样吞咽了一口，耸起肩膀，抽搐着身躯。“它就是这样，只是不是故意的。”“你在给我讲故事吗，杰姆·芬奇？”卡尔珀尼亚的声音变得生硬起来。
　　"No Cal, I swear I'm not.""Was he runnin'?""No, he's just moseyin' along, so slow you can't hardly tell it.
“没有，卡尔，我发誓我没有。”“他在跑吗？”“没有，他只是慢慢地走着，慢得你几乎感觉不到。
　　He's comin' this way."Calpurnia rinsed her hands and followed Jem into the yard. "Idon't see any dog," she said.
“他正朝这边过来。”卡尔珀尼亚洗了洗手，跟着杰姆走进院子。“我没看到狗，”她说。
　　She followed us beyond the Radley Place and looked where Jempointed. Tim Johnson was not much more than a speck in the distance,but he was closer to us. He walked erratically, as if his right legswere shorter than his left legs. He reminded me of a car stuck in asandbed.
她跟着我们走出拉德利家，朝杰姆指的方向望去。蒂姆·约翰逊在远处不过是个小点，但他离我们更近了。他走路很不稳，好像右腿比左腿短。他让我想起一辆陷在沙床上的汽车。
　　"He's gone lopsided," said Jem. ...
　　Calpurnia stared, then grabbed us by the shoulders and ran ushome. She shut the wood door behind us, went to the telephone andshouted, "Gimme Mr. Finch's office!""Mr. Finch!" she shouted. "This is Cal. I swear to God there's a maddog down the street a piece- he's comin' this way, yes sir, he's-Mr. Finch, I declare he is- old Tim Johnson, yes sir… yessir…yes-"She hung up and shook her head when we tried to ask her what Atticushad said. She rattled the telephone hook and said, "Miss Eula May- nowma'am, I'm through talkin' to Mr. Finch, please don't connect me nomore- listen, Miss Eula May, can you call Miss Rachel and MissStephanie Crawford and whoever's got a phone on this street and tell'em a mad dog's comin'? Please ma'am!"Calpurnia listened. "I know it's February, Miss Eula May, but I knowa mad dog when I see one. Please ma'am hurry!"Calpurnia asked Jem, "Radleys got a phone?"Jem looked in the book and said no. "They won't come out anyway,Cal.""I don't care, I'm gonna tell 'em."She ran to the front porch, Jem and I at her heels. "You stay inthat house!" she yelled.
卡尔珀尼亚愣了一下，然后抓住我们的肩膀，带我们跑回家。她关上我们身后的木门，走到电话机旁，喊道：“给我芬奇先生的办公室！”“芬奇先生！”她喊道，“我是卡尔。我向上帝发誓，街上那边有条疯狗——他正朝这边过来，是的，先生，他是——芬奇先生，我敢肯定他是——老蒂姆·约翰逊，是的，先生……是的，先生……是的——”我们想问她阿蒂库沙说了什么，她挂了电话，摇了摇头。她猛地拉紧电话线，说道：“尤拉·梅小姐——夫人，我和芬奇先生的电话已经打完了，请不要再接通了——听着，尤拉·梅小姐，你能给雷切尔小姐、斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐以及这条街上任何有电话的人打电话吗？告诉他们疯狗来了！求求你了，夫人！”卡尔珀尼亚听着。“我知道现在是二月，尤拉·梅小姐，但我一眼就能看出是疯狗。夫人，求求你，快点！”卡尔珀尼亚问杰姆：“拉德利家有电话吗？”杰姆翻了翻电话簿，说没有。“反正他们也不会出来的，卡尔。”“我不管，我要告诉他们。”她跑到前廊，杰姆和我紧随其后。“你们就待在那栋房子里！”她喊道。
　　Calpurnia's message had been received by the neighborhood. Everywood door within our range of vision was closed tight. We saw no traceof Tim Johnson. We watched Calpurnia running toward the RadleyPlace, holding her skirt and apron above her knees. She went up to thefront steps and banged on the door. She got no answer, and sheshouted, "Mr. Nathan, Mr. Arthur, mad dog's comin'! Mad dog's comin'!""She's supposed to go around in back," I said.
卡尔珀尼亚的消息已经被邻居们收到了。我们视野范围内的每一扇木门都紧闭着。我们没看到蒂姆·约翰逊的踪影。我们看着卡尔珀尼亚跑向拉德利家，裙子和围裙都提在膝盖以上。她走到前门台阶上，猛敲门。没有人回应，于是她喊道：“内森先生，亚瑟先生，疯狗来了！疯狗来了！”“她应该绕到后面去，”我说。
　　Jem shook his head. "Don't make any difference now," he said.
杰姆摇摇头。“现在也没什么区别了。”他说。
　　Calpurnia pounded on the door in vain. No one acknowledged herwarning; no one seemed to have heard it.
卡尔珀尼亚徒劳地敲着门。没有人理会她的警告；似乎没有人听到。
　　As Calpurnia sprinted to the back porch a black Ford swung intothe driveway. Atticus and Mr. Heck Tate got out.
卡尔珀尼亚飞奔到后门廊时，一辆黑色福特车开进了车道。阿蒂克斯和赫克·泰特先生下了车。
　　Mr. Heck Tate was the sheriff of Maycomb County. He was as tall asAtticus, but thinner. He was long-nosed, wore boots with shiny metaleye-holes, boot pants and a lumber jacket. His belt had a row ofbullets sticking in it. He carried a heavy rifle. When he andAtticus reached the porch, Jem opened the door.
赫克·泰特先生是梅科姆县的警长。他和阿蒂克斯一样高，但更瘦一些。他鼻子很长，穿着靴子，靴筒裤和伐木工夹克，靴筒裤上插着一排子弹。他带着一支重型步枪。当他和阿蒂克斯走到门廊时，杰姆打开了门。
　　"Stay inside, son," said Atticus. "Where is he, Cal?""He oughta be here by now," said Calpurnia, pointing down thestreet.
“儿子，待在屋里，”阿蒂克斯说。“他在哪儿，卡尔？”“他现在应该到了，”卡尔珀尼亚指着街那边说。
　　"Not runnin', is he?" asked Mr. Tate.
“他没跑吧？”泰特先生问道。
　　"Naw sir, he's in the twitchin' stage, Mr. Heck.""Should we go after him, Heck?" asked Atticus.
“不，先生，他正处于抽搐阶段，赫克先生。”“我们应该追上他吗，赫克？”阿蒂克斯问。
　　"We better wait, Mr. Finch. They usually go in a straight line,but you never can tell. He might follow the curve- hope he does orhe'll go straight in the Radley back yard. Let's wait a minute.""Don't think he'll get in the Radley yard," said Atticus.
“我们最好等等，芬奇先生。它们通常走直线，但谁也说不准。它可能会拐弯——希望它能拐弯，不然就径直走进拉德利家的后院。我们等一会儿吧。”“我觉得它进不了拉德利家的院子，”阿蒂克斯说。
　　"Fence'll stop him. He'll probably follow the road…"I thought mad dogs foamed at the mouth, galloped, leaped andlunged at throats, and I thought they did it in August. Had TimJohnson behaved thus, I would have been less frightened.
“栅栏会挡住它。它可能会沿着路走……”我以为疯狗会口吐白沫，飞奔、跳跃、猛扑，还会在八月份就这么做。如果蒂姆·约翰逊也这么做，我就不会那么害怕了。
　　Nothing is more deadly than a deserted, waiting street. The treeswere still, the mockingbirds were silent, the carpenters at MissMaudie's house had vanished. I heard Mr. Tate sniff, then blow hisnose. I saw him shift his gun to the crook of his arm. I saw MissStephanie Crawford's face framed in the glass window of her frontdoor. Miss Maudie appeared and stood beside her. Atticus put hisfoot on the rung of a chair and rubbed his hand slowly down the sideof his thigh.
没有什么比一条空无一人、等待着的街道更致命。树木静止不动，嘲鸫也悄无声息，莫迪小姐家的木匠也消失了。我听到泰特先生吸了吸鼻子，然后擤了擤鼻子。我看到他把枪移到臂弯里。我看到斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐的脸映入她家前门的玻璃窗。莫迪小姐出现了，站在她身边。阿蒂克斯把脚放在椅子的横档上，手慢慢地抚摸着大腿侧面。
　　"There he is," he said softly.
“他在那儿，”他轻声说道。
　　Tim Johnson came into sight, walking dazedly in the inner rim of thecurve parallel to the Radley house.
蒂姆·约翰逊出现在了人们的视线中，他茫然地走在与拉德利家的房子平行的弯道内侧。
　　"Look at him," whispered Jem. "Mr. Heck said they walked in astraight line. He can't even stay in the road.""He looks more sick than anything," I said.
“看看他，”杰姆低声说，“赫克先生说他们走的是直线。他甚至都不能站在路上。”“他看起来病得厉害，”我说。
　　"Let anything get in front of him and he'll come straight at it."Mr. Tate put his hand to his forehead and leaned forward. "He'sgot it all right, Mr. Finch."Tim Johnson was advancing at a snail's pace, but he was notplaying or sniffing at foliage: he seemed dedicated to one courseand motivated by an invisible force that was inching him toward us. Wecould see him shiver like a horse shedding flies; his jaw opened andshut; he was alist, but he was being pulled gradually toward us.
“只要有什么东西挡在他面前，他就会径直冲过来。”泰特先生用手捂着额头，身体前倾。“芬奇先生，他完全没问题。”蒂姆·约翰逊正以蜗牛般的速度前进，但他既没有玩耍，也没有嗅树叶：他似乎一心一意地朝着一个目标前进，被一股无形的力量驱使着，这股力量正把他一点点地拉向我们。我们能看到他像马赶苍蝇一样瑟瑟发抖；他的下巴张开又合上；他身体倾斜，但正被逐渐拉向我们。
　　"He's lookin' for a place to die," said Jem.
“他在找个地方死去，”杰姆说。
　　Mr. Tate turned around. "He's far from dead, Jem, he hasn't gotstarted yet."Tim Johnson reached the side street that ran in front of theRadley Place, and what remained of his poor mind made him pause andseem to consider which road he would take. He made a few hesitantsteps and stopped in front of the Radley gate; then he tried to turnaround, but was having difficulty.
泰特先生转过身。“杰姆，他还没死呢，还没开始呢。”蒂姆·约翰逊走到拉德利家门前的那条小街上，他残存的脑子让他停了下来，似乎在考虑该走哪条路。他犹豫了几步，在拉德利家门口停了下来；然后他想转身，却怎么也转不开。
　　Atticus said, "He's within range, Heck. You better get him before hegoes down the side street- Lord knows who's around the corner. Goinside, Cal."Calpurnia opened the screen door, latched it behind her, thenunlatched it and held onto the hook. She tried to block Jem and mewith her body, but we looked out from beneath her arms.
阿蒂克斯说：“他已经进了射程，赫克。你最好趁他还没跑到小巷里去把他抓起来——天知道拐角处是谁。进去吧，卡尔。” 卡尔珀尼亚打开纱门，在身后闩上，然后又打开闩，抓住门钩。她想用身体挡住我和杰姆，但我们从她的胳膊底下往外看。
　　"Take him, Mr. Finch." Mr. Tate handed the rifle to Atticus; Jem andI nearly fainted.
“把他拿下，芬奇先生。”泰特先生把枪递给阿蒂克斯；杰姆和我差点晕过去。
　　"Don't waste time, Heck," said Atticus. "Go on.""Mr. Finch, this is a one-shot job."Atticus shook his head vehemently: "Don't just stand there, Heck! Hewon't wait all day for you-""For God's sake, Mr. Finch, look where he is! Miss and you'll gostraight into the Radley house! I can't shoot that well and you knowit!""I haven't shot a gun in thirty years-"Mr. Tate almost threw the rifle at Atticus. "I'd feel mightycomfortable if you did now," he said.
“别浪费时间，赫克，”阿蒂克斯说。“开枪。”“芬奇先生，这事儿一枪就能搞定。”阿蒂克斯猛地摇头：“别傻站着，赫克！他不会等你一整天的——”“看在上帝的份上，芬奇先生，看看他现在在哪儿！打偏了，你就得直接冲进拉德利家！我枪法不行，你知道的！”“我三十年没开枪了——”泰特先生几乎把枪扔向阿蒂克斯。“你现在要是开枪，我会安心很多的，”他说。
　　In a fog, Jem and I watched our father take the gun and walk outinto the middle of the street. He walked quickly, but I thought hemoved like an underwater swimmer: time had slowed to a nauseatingcrawl.
迷雾笼罩中，我和杰姆看着父亲拿着枪走到街道中央。他走得很快，但我感觉他像个潜泳者：时间慢得令人作呕。
　　When Atticus raised his glasses Calpurnia murmured, "Sweet Jesushelp him," and put her hands to her cheeks. ...
　　Atticus pushed his glasses to his forehead; they slipped down, andhe dropped them in the street. In the silence, I heard them crack.
阿蒂克斯把眼镜推到额头上，眼镜滑落下来，掉在了街上。寂静中，我听到眼镜碎裂的声音。
　　Atticus rubbed his eyes and chin; we saw him blink hard.
阿蒂克斯揉了揉眼睛和下巴；我们看到他使劲眨着眼睛。
　　In front of the Radley gate, Tim Johnson had made up what was leftof his mind. He had finally turned himself around, to pursue hisoriginal course up our street. He made two steps forward, then stoppedand raised his head. We saw his body go rigid.
拉德利家门口，蒂姆·约翰逊终于下定了决心。他终于转过身，沿着我们这条街原路走去。他向前走了两步，然后停下，抬起头。我们看到他的身体僵住了。
　　With movements so swift they seemed simultaneous, Atticus's handyanked a ball-tipped lever as he brought the gun to his shoulder.
阿蒂克斯的动作如此迅速，仿佛是同时发生的，他用手猛拉一个球头杠杆，把枪举到肩上。
　　The rifle cracked. Tim Johnson leaped, flopped over and crumpledon the sidewalk in a brown-and-white heap. He didn't know what hithim.
步枪咔嚓一声响。蒂姆·约翰逊跳了起来，摔倒在人行道上，变成棕白色的一团。他不知道自己被什么击中了。
　　Mr. Tate jumped off the porch and ran to the Radley Place. Hestopped in front of the dog, squatted, turned around and tapped hisfinger on his forehead above his left eye. "You were a little to theright, Mr. Finch," he called.
泰特先生跳下门廊，跑向拉德利家。他在狗面前停下，蹲下，转过身，用手指敲了敲左眼上方的额头。“芬奇先生，你稍微往右了一点，”他喊道。
　　"Always was," answered Atticus. "If I had my 'druthers I'd take ashotgun."He stooped and picked up his glasses, ground the broken lenses topowder under his heel, and went to Mr. Tate and stood looking downat Tim Johnson.
“一直都是，”阿蒂克斯回答。“如果可以选择，我会带一把猎枪。”他弯下腰捡起眼镜，用脚后跟蹭了蹭碎镜片上的粉末，然后走到泰特先生身边，低头看着蒂姆·约翰逊。
　　Doors opened one by one, and the neighborhood slowly came alive.
门一扇扇地打开，街区慢慢恢复了生机。
　　Miss Maudie walked down the steps with Miss Stephanie Crawford.
莫迪小姐和斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐一起走下台阶。
　　Jem was paralyzed. I pinched him to get him moving, but when Atticussaw us coming he called, "Stay where you are."When Mr. Tate and Atticus returned to the yard, Mr. Tate wassmiling. "I'll have Zeebo collect him," he said. "You haven't forgotmuch, Mr. Finch. They say it never leaves you."Atticus was silent.
杰姆瘫痪了。我掐了他一下，让他动起来，但阿蒂克斯看到我们来了，便喊道：“别动。”泰特先生和阿蒂克斯回到院子时，泰特先生笑了。“我会让泽博去接他，”他说。“芬奇先生，你忘得真多。据说它永远不会离开你。”阿蒂克斯沉默了。
　　"Atticus?" said Jem. ...
　　"Yes?""Nothin'.""I saw that, One-Shot Finch!"Atticus wheeled around and faced Miss Maudie. They looked at oneanother without saying anything, and Atticus got into the sheriff'scar. "Come here," he said to Jem. "Don't you go near that dog, youunderstand? Don't go near him, he's just as dangerous dead as alive.""Yes sir," said Jem. "Atticus-""What, son?""Nothing.""What's the matter with you, boy, can't you talk?" said Mr. Tate,grinning at Jem. "Didn't you know your daddy's-""Hush, Heck," said Atticus, "let's go back to town."When they drove away, Jem and I went to Miss Stephanie's frontsteps. We sat waiting for Zeebo to arrive in the garbage truck.
“什么事？”“没什么。”“我看到了，一枪毙命的芬奇！”阿蒂克斯转过身，面对着莫迪小姐。他们互相看了一眼，什么也没说，阿蒂克斯上了警长的车。“过来，”他对杰姆说。“别靠近那条狗，明白吗？别靠近它，它死了和活着一样危险。”“是的，先生，”杰姆说。“阿蒂克斯——”“怎么了，儿子？”“没什么。”“你怎么了，孩子，你不会说话吗？”泰特先生咧嘴笑着对杰姆说。“你不知道你爸爸——”“嘘，赫克，”阿蒂克斯说，“我们回城里去吧。”他们开车走了，我和杰姆来到斯蒂芬妮小姐家门口。我们坐在那里等着泽波开着垃圾车过来。
　　Jem sat in numb confusion, and Miss Stephanie said, "Uh, uh, uh,who'da thought of a mad dog in February? Maybe he wadn't mad, maybe hewas just crazy. I'd hate to see Harry Johnson's face when he gets infrom the Mobile run and finds Atticus Finch's shot his dog. Bet he wasjust full of fleas from somewhere-"Miss Maudie said Miss Stephanie'd be singing a different tune if TimJohnson was still coming up the street, that they'd find out soonenough, they'd send his head to Montgomery.
杰姆茫然地坐着，斯蒂芬妮小姐说：“呃，呃，呃，谁会想到二月会有疯狗？也许它没疯，也许它就是疯了。我真不想看到哈里·约翰逊从莫比尔跑道回来，发现他的狗被阿蒂克斯·芬奇射杀时的表情。我敢打赌，它身上肯定是不知从哪儿钻出来的跳蚤……”莫迪小姐说，如果蒂姆·约翰逊还在街上走，斯蒂芬妮小姐肯定会大吃一惊，说他们很快就会发现，会把他的脑袋送去蒙哥马利。
　　Jem became vaguely articulate: "'d you see him, Scout? 'd you seehim just standin' there?… 'n' all of a sudden he just relaxed allover, an' it looked like that gun was a part of him… an' he did itso quick, like… I hafta aim for ten minutes 'fore I can hitsomethin'…"Miss Maudie grinned wickedly. "Well now, Miss Jean Louise," shesaid, "still think your father can't do anything? Still ashamed ofhim?""Nome," I said meekly.
杰姆含糊地开口道：“你看到他了吗，斯库特？你看到他就站在那里吗？……然后他突然全身放松，感觉那把枪就像他身体的一部分……而且他动作那么快，就像……我得瞄准十分钟才能打中……”莫迪小姐坏笑着说：“好吧，琼·路易丝小姐，”她说，“你还觉得你父亲无能为力吗？还为他感到羞耻吗？”“不，”我温顺地说。
　　"Forgot to tell you the other day that besides playing the Jew'sHarp, Atticus Finch was the deadest shot in Maycomb County in histime.""Dead shot…" echoed Jem.
“前几天忘了告诉你，阿提克斯·芬奇除了会弹奏口琴之外，还是梅科姆县当时最厉害的神枪手。”“神枪手……”杰姆重复道。
　　"That's what I said, Jem Finch. Guess you'll change your tune now.
“我就是这么说的，杰姆·芬奇。看来你现在会改变主意了。”
　　The very idea, didn't you know his nickname was Ol' One-Shot when hewas a boy? Why, down at the Landing when he was coming up, if heshot fifteen times and hit fourteen doves he'd complain aboutwasting ammunition.""He never said anything about that," Jem muttered.
就凭这一点，你不知道他小时候的绰号叫“老一枪”吗？他上岸的时候，要是打了十五枪，打中了十四只鸽子，他就会抱怨浪费弹药。“他从来没提过这事，”杰姆嘟囔道。
　　"Never said anything about it, did he?""No ma'am.""Wonder why he never goes huntin' now," I said.
“他从来没提过这事，是吗？”“没有，夫人。”“真奇怪他现在为什么都不去打猎了，”我说。
　　"Maybe I can tell you," said Miss Maudie. "If your father'sanything, he's civilized in his heart. Marksmanship's a gift of God, atalent- oh, you have to practice to make it perfect, but shootin'sdifferent from playing the piano or the like. I think maybe he put hisgun down when he realized that God had given him an unfair advantageover most living things. I guess he decided he wouldn't shoot tillhe had to, and he had to today.""Looks like he'd be proud of it," I said.
“或许我可以告诉你，”莫迪小姐说。“要说你父亲有什么特点，那就是他内心文明。枪法是上帝的恩赐，一种天赋——哦，你得练习才能完美，但射击和弹钢琴之类的不一样。我想，当他意识到上帝赋予他比大多数生物更不公平的优势时，他可能就放下了枪。我猜他决定不到万不得已不开枪，而今天他不得不开枪。” “看来他会为此感到自豪的，”我说。
　　"People in their right minds never take pride in their talents,"said Miss Maudie.
“心智健全的人永远不会因自己的才能而自豪，”莫迪小姐说道。
　　We saw Zeebo drive up. He took a pitchfork from the back of thegarbage truck and gingerly lifted Tim Johnson. He pitched the dog ontothe truck, then poured something from a gallon jug on and around thespot where Tim fell. "Don't yawl come over here for a while," hecalled.
我们看到泽博开车过来。他从垃圾车后面拿起一把草叉，小心翼翼地把蒂姆·约翰逊抬起来。他把狗扔到卡车上，然后从一加仑罐子里往蒂姆摔倒的地方和周围浇了点东西。“一会儿别过来，”他喊道。
　　When we went home I told Jem we'd really have something to talkabout at school on Monday. Jem turned on me.
回家后，我告诉杰姆，我们周一在学校确实有事要谈。杰姆却转过身来对我说。
　　"Don't say anything about it, Scout," he said.
“斯库特，别提这件事了，”他说。
　　"What? I certainly am. Ain't everybody's daddy the deadest shot inMaycomb County."Jem said, "I reckon if he'd wanted us to know it, he'da told us.
“什么？我当然是了。梅科姆县的神枪手可不是每个人的爸爸。”杰姆说，“我想如果他想让我们知道，他早就告诉我们了。”
　　If he was proud of it, he'da told us.""Maybe it just slipped his mind," I said.
如果他为此感到自豪，他会告诉我们的。”“也许他只是忘记了，”我说。
　　"Naw, Scout, it's something you wouldn't understand. Atticus is realold, but I wouldn't care if he couldn't do anything- I wouldn't careif he couldn't do a blessed thing."Jem picked up a rock and threw it jubilantly at the carhouse.
“不，斯库特，你不会明白的。阿蒂克斯是真的老了，但我不在乎他是否能做任何事——我不在乎他是否能做一件好事。”杰姆捡起一块石头，得意洋洋地朝车库扔去。
　　Running after it, he called back: "Atticus is a gentleman, just likeme!"11When we were small, Jem and I confined our activities to thesouthern neighborhood, but when I was well into the second grade atschool and tormenting Boo Radley became passe, the business section ofMaycomb drew us frequently up the street past the real property ofMrs. Henry Lafayette Dubose. It was impossible to go to town withoutpassing her house unless we wished to walk a mile out of the way.
他追着它跑，一边喊道：“阿蒂克斯是个绅士，跟我一样！”11小时候，我和杰姆的活动范围只限于南边一带。但当我上二年级的时候，折磨布·拉德利已经过时了，梅科姆的商业区就经常吸引我们沿着这条街走到亨利·拉斐特·杜博斯夫人的房产旁。除非我们愿意绕道走一英里，否则进镇上不可能不经过她家。
　　Previous minor encounters with her left me with no desire for more,but Jem said I had to grow up some time.
之前与她有过一些小小的接触，我不再渴望更多，但杰姆说我必须长大一点。
　　Mrs. Dubose lived alone except for a Negro girl in constantattendance, two doors up the street from us in a house with steepfront steps and a dog-trot hall. She was very old; she spent most ofeach day in bed and the rest of it in a wheelchair. It was rumoredthat she kept a CSA pistol concealed among her numerous shawls andwraps.
杜博斯太太独自一人居住，除了一个经常照料的黑人女孩，她住在离我们家两户远的一栋房子里，房子前面有陡峭的台阶，还有一条狗跑道似的走廊。她年纪很大了；每天大部分时间都躺在床上，其余时间则坐在轮椅上。据说，她把一把南美军的手枪藏在她无数的披肩和围巾里。
　　Jem and I hated her. If she was on the porch when we passed, wewould be raked by her wrathful gaze, subjected to ruthlessinterrogation regarding our behavior, and given a melancholyprediction on what we would amount to when we grew up, which wasalways nothing. We had long ago given up the idea of walking pasther house on the opposite side of the street; that only made her raiseher voice and let the whole neighborhood in on it.
杰姆和我都恨她。如果我们经过她家时，她正好在门廊上，我们就会遭到她怒目而视的目光，被她无情地盘问我们的行为，还会被她忧郁地预言我们长大后会做什么，而我们的预言总是一无所获。我们早就打消了从街对面她家走过的念头；这只会让她大声嚷嚷，把这事传遍整个街区。
　　We could do nothing to please her. If I said as sunnily as Icould, "Hey, Mrs. Dubose," I would receive for an answer, "Don't yousay hey to me, you ugly girl! You say good afternoon, Mrs. Dubose!"She was vicious. Once she heard Jem refer to our father as "Atticus"and her reaction was apoplectic. Besides being the sassiest, mostdisrespectful mutts who ever passed her way, we were told that itwas quite a pity our father had not remarried after our mother'sdeath. A lovelier lady than our mother never lived, she said, and itwas heartbreaking the way Atticus Finch let her children run wild. Idid not remember our mother, but Jem did- he would tell me about hersometimes- and he went livid when Mrs. Dubose shot us this message.
我们做什么都无法让她高兴。如果我尽量开朗地说：“嘿，杜博斯太太，”她会回答说：“别跟我打招呼，你这个丑丫头！你应该说下午好，杜博斯太太！”她很凶。有一次，她听到杰姆叫我们父亲“阿蒂克斯”，反应简直暴跳如雷。她不仅是她见过的最无礼、最无礼的混蛋，还告诉我们，我们父亲在母亲去世后没有再婚真是太可惜了。她说，世上再也没有比我们母亲更可爱的女人了，阿蒂克斯·芬奇让她的孩子们胡闹，真是令人心碎。我不记得我们的母亲，但杰姆记得——他有时会跟我讲起她——当杜博斯太太给我们发这条信息时，他勃然大怒。
　　Jem, having survived Boo Radley, a mad dog and other terrors, hadconcluded that it was cowardly to stop at Miss Rachel's front stepsand wait, and had decreed that we must run as far as the post officecorner each evening to meet Atticus coming from work. Countlessevenings Atticus would find Jem furious at something Mrs. Dubose hadsaid when we went by.
杰姆经历过布·拉德利、疯狗和其他恐怖事件后，觉得在雷切尔小姐家门口等着是懦弱的表现，于是规定我们每天晚上都要跑到邮局拐角处迎接下班的阿蒂克斯。无数个晚上，阿蒂克斯都会发现杰姆因为杜博斯太太在我们经过时说的话而勃然大怒。
　　"Easy does it, son," Atticus would say. "She's an old lady and she'sill. You just hold your head high and be a gentleman. Whatever shesays to you, it's your job not to let her make you mad."Jem would say she must not be very sick, she hollered so. When thethree of us came to her house, Atticus would sweep off his hat, wavegallantly to her and say, "Good evening, Mrs. Dubose! You look likea picture this evening."I never heard Atticus say like a picture of what. He would tellher the courthouse news, and would say he hoped with all his heartshe'd have a good day tomorrow. He would return his hat to his head,swing me to his shoulders in her very presence, and we would go homein the twilight. It was times like these when I thought my father, whohated guns and had never been to any wars, was the bravest man whoever lived.
“儿子，别着急，”阿蒂克斯会说。“她老太太病了，你只要昂首挺胸，做个绅士就行了。不管她跟你说了什么，你都得乖乖听话，别让她惹你生气。”杰姆会说她肯定没病得很重，她会大声嚷嚷。我们三人去她家的时候，阿蒂克斯会脱帽致意，彬彬有礼地向她挥手，说：“晚上好，杜博斯太太！你今晚看起来美极了。”我从来没听阿蒂克斯说过“美极了”什么。他会告诉她法院的消息，然后说他真心希望她明天过得愉快。他会把帽子重新戴在头上，当着她的面把我甩到肩上，然后我们在暮色中回家。在这种时候，我觉得我那讨厌枪支、从未参加过战争的父亲，是世上最勇敢的人。
　　The day after Jem's twelfth birthday his money was burning up hispockets, so we headed for town in the early afternoon. Jem thoughthe had enough to buy a miniature steam engine for himself and atwirling baton for me.
杰姆十二岁生日的第二天，他的钱快花光了，所以我们下午很早就动身进城了。杰姆觉得他有足够的钱给自己买个微型蒸汽机，再给我买一根旋转指挥棒。
　　I had long had my eye on that baton: it was at V. J. Elmore's, itwas bedecked with sequins and tinsel, it cost seventeen cents. Itwas then my burning ambition to grow up and twirl with the MaycombCounty High School band. Having developed my talent to where I couldthrow up a stick and almost catch it coming down, I had causedCalpurnia to deny me entrance to the house every time she saw mewith a stick in my hand. I felt that I could overcome this defect witha real baton, and I thought it generous of Jem to buy one for me.
我早就垂涎这根指挥棒了：它在 V.J.埃尔莫尔店里，上面装饰着亮片和金箔，售价 17 美分。当时我满怀梦想，长大后能和梅科姆县高中乐队一起旋转。我的天赋已经发展到可以把一根棍子扔出去，然后差点接住掉下来的棍子，所以每次卡尔珀尼亚看到我手里拿着棍子，她都会拒绝让我进屋。我觉得一根真正的指挥棒可以弥补这个缺点，而且我觉得杰姆给我买了一根真是太慷慨了。
　　Mrs. Dubose was stationed on her porch when we went by.
当我们经过时，杜博斯太太正站在门廊上。
　　"Where are you two going at this time of day?" she shouted. "Playinghooky, I suppose. I'll just call up the principal and tell him!" Sheput her hands on the wheels of her chair and executed a perfectright face.
“你们俩这时间去哪儿？”她吼道。“我猜是逃学吧。我这就打电话告诉校长！”她把手放在轮椅上，摆出一副完美的表情。
　　"Aw, it's Saturday, Mrs. Dubose," said Jem. ...
　　"Makes no difference if it's Saturday," she said obscurely. "Iwonder if your father knows where you are?""Mrs. Dubose, we've been goin' to town by ourselves since we werethis high." Jem placed his hand palm down about two feet above thesidewalk.
“就算是星期六也一样，”她含糊地说，“不知道你爸爸知不知道你在哪儿？”“杜博斯太太，自从我们这么嗨以来，就一直自己进城。”杰姆把手掌放在人行道上方大约两英尺的地方。
　　"Don't you lie to me!" she yelled. "Jeremy Finch, Maudie Atkinsontold me you broke down her scuppernong arbor this morning. She's goingto tell your father and then you'll wish you never saw the light ofday! If you aren't sent to the reform school before next week, myname's not Dubose!"Jem, who hadn't been near Miss Maudie's scuppernong arbor since lastsummer, and who knew Miss Maudie wouldn't tell Atticus if he had,issued a general denial.
“别骗我！”她喊道。“杰里米·芬奇，莫迪·阿特金森告诉我，你今天早上把她的斯卡珀农凉亭弄坏了。她会告诉你爸爸，到时候你就会后悔莫及！如果你下周之前没被送进感化院，我就不叫杜博斯了！”杰姆从去年夏天起就没再靠近过莫迪小姐的斯卡珀农凉亭，他知道就算他去了莫迪小姐也不会告诉阿蒂克斯，所以他断然否认。
　　"Don't you contradict me!" Mrs. Dubose bawled. "And you-" shepointed an arthritic finger at me- "what are you doing in thoseoveralls? You should be in a dress and camisole, young lady! You'llgrow up waiting on tables if somebody doesn't change your ways- aFinch waiting on tables at the O.K. Cafe- hah!"I was terrified. The O.K. Cafe was a dim organization on the northside of the square. I grabbed Jem's hand but he shook me loose.
“别顶撞我！”杜博斯太太吼道。“还有你——”她用一根关节炎的手指指着我——“你穿这工装裤干什么？你应该穿连衣裙和吊带背心，小姑娘！要是没人改掉你的毛病，你长大以后就只能当服务员了——像个在 OK 咖啡馆当服务员的芬奇——哈哈！”我吓坏了。OK 咖啡馆是广场北边一家不起眼的机构。我抓住杰姆的手，但他一把将我甩开。
　　"Come on, Scout," he whispered. "Don't pay any attention to her,just hold your head high and be a gentleman."But Mrs. Dubose held us: "Not only a Finch waiting on tables but onein the courthouse lawing for niggers!"Jem stiffened. Mrs. Dubose's shot had gone home and she knew it:
“得了，斯库特，”他低声说，“别理她，昂首挺胸，做个绅士。”可是杜博斯太太拦住了我们：“芬奇先生可不只是个在餐厅当服务员的，还是个在法院里为黑鬼打官司的！”杰姆僵住了。杜博斯太太知道，这一枪打中了目标：
　　"Yes indeed, what has this world come to when a Finch goes againsthis raising? I'll tell you!" She put her hand to her mouth. When shedrew it away, it trailed a long silver thread of saliva. "Yourfather's no better than the niggers and trash he works for!"Jem was scarlet. I pulled at his sleeve, and we were followed up thesidewalk by a philippic on our family's moral degeneration, themajor premise of which was that half the Finches were in the asylumanyway, but if our mother were living we would not have come to such astate.
“是啊，芬奇家的人违背教养，这世界都成什么样了？我告诉你！”她把手捂在嘴边。抽回手时，嘴里流淌着长长的银色唾液。“你爸爸和他手下的那些黑鬼和垃圾没什么两样！”杰姆脸涨得通红。我拉了拉他的袖子，我们沿着人行道走去，他接着又对我们家道德沦丧大加斥责，主要理由是芬奇家有一半人都在精神病院，但如果我们母亲还活着，我们就不会落得如此下场。
　　I wasn't sure what Jem resented most, but I took umbrage at Mrs.
我不确定杰姆最讨厌什么，但我对夫人感到愤怒。
　　Dubose's assessment of the family's mental hygiene. I had becomealmost accustomed to hearing insults aimed at Atticus. But this wasthe first one coming from an adult. Except for her remarks aboutAtticus, Mrs. Dubose's attack was only routine. There was a hint ofsummer in the air- in the shadows it was cool, but the sun was warm,which meant good times coming: no school and Dill.
杜博斯太太对这家人精神卫生状况的评估。我几乎已经习惯了听到针对阿蒂克斯的辱骂。但这还是第一次出自成年人之口。除了对阿蒂克斯的评论之外，杜博斯太太的攻击只是例行公事。空气中弥漫着一丝夏日的气息——阴凉处凉爽，但阳光温暖，这意味着美好时光即将到来：不用上学，还有迪尔。
　　Jem bought his steam engine and we went by Elmore's for my baton.
杰姆买了他的蒸汽机，然后我们去埃尔莫尔买我的接力棒。
　　Jem took no pleasure in his acquisition; he jammed it in his pocketand walked silently beside me toward home. On the way home I nearlyhit Mr. Link Deas, who said, "Look out now, Scout!" when I missed atoss, and when we approached Mrs. Dubose's house my baton was grimyfrom having picked it up out of the dirt so many times.
杰姆对他的收获并不高兴；他把棍子塞进口袋，默默地和我并肩往家走去。回家的路上，我差点撞到林克·迪斯先生，他没撞到，却说：“小心点，斯库特！”我们快到杜博斯太太家的时候，我的棍子已经脏得不行了，因为我已经从地里捡过无数次了。
　　She was not on the porch.
她不在门廊上。
　　In later years, I sometimes wondered exactly what made Jem do it,what made him break the bonds of "You just be a gentleman, son," andthe phase of self-conscious rectitude he had recently entered. Jem hadprobably stood as much guff about Atticus lawing for niggers as had I,and I took it for granted that he kept his temper- he had anaturally tranquil disposition and a slow fuse. At the time,however, I thought the only explanation for what he did was that for afew minutes he simply went mad.
后来，我有时会纳闷，究竟是什么驱使杰姆这么做，是什么让他打破了“儿子，你得做个绅士”的桎梏，以及他最近才进入的自觉正直阶段。杰姆大概和我一样，也曾对阿蒂克斯为黑鬼打官司的事嗤之以鼻，我理所当然地认为他脾气不会变——他天生性情温和，性子也比较慢。然而，当时我却觉得，他这么做的唯一解释就是，他只是在几分钟内发了疯。
　　What Jem did was something I'd do as a matter of course had I notbeen under Atticus's interdict, which I assumed included notfighting horrible old ladies. We had just come to her gate when Jemsnatched my baton and ran flailing wildly up the steps into Mrs.
杰姆做的事，如果不是受到阿蒂克斯的禁令（我猜想禁令里包括不许和那些讨厌的老太太打架），我也会理所当然地去做。我们刚走到她家门口，杰姆就抢走了我的警棍，疯狂地挥舞着跑上台阶，撞上了阿蒂克斯太太。
　　Dubose's front yard, forgetting everything Atticus had said,forgetting that she packed a pistol under her shawls, forgettingthat if Mrs. Dubose missed, her girl Jessie probably wouldn't.
杜博斯的前院，忘记了阿蒂克斯说过的每一句话，忘记了她在披肩下藏了一把手枪，忘记了如果杜博斯太太失手了，她的女儿杰西可能也不会失手。
　　He did not begin to calm down until he had cut the tops off everycamellia bush Mrs. Dubose owned, until the ground was littered withgreen buds and leaves. He bent my baton against his knee, snapped itin two and threw it down.
直到他把杜博斯太太所有的山茶花树梢都砍掉，地上铺满了绿芽绿叶，他才开始平静下来。他把我的警棍抵在膝盖上，掰成两半，扔了下去。
　　By that time I was shrieking. Jem yanked my hair, said he didn'tcare, he'd do it again if he got a chance, and if I didn't shut uphe'd pull every hair out of my head. I didn't shut up and he kickedme. I lost my balance and fell on my face. Jem picked me up roughlybut looked like he was sorry. There was nothing to say.
那时我已经尖叫起来。杰姆拽着我的头发，说他不在乎，只要有机会他还会再来，如果我不闭嘴，他就把我的头发都拔掉。我没闭嘴，他就踢了我一脚。我失去了平衡，脸朝下摔倒了。杰姆粗鲁地把我扶起来，但他看起来很抱歉。我什么也没说。
　　We did not choose to meet Atticus coming home that evening. Weskulked around the kitchen until Calpurnia threw us out. By somevoo-doo system Calpurnia seemed to know all about it. She was a lessthan satisfactory source of palliation, but she did give Jem a hotbiscuit-and-butter which he tore in half and shared with me. It tastedlike cotton.
那天晚上我们没想着碰见回家的阿蒂克斯。我们偷偷摸摸地在厨房里转悠，直到被卡尔普尼亚赶了出去。卡尔普尼亚似乎对一切都了如指掌。她虽然没能让人满意，但她确实给了杰姆一块热黄油饼干，杰姆把它撕成两半，和我分享。味道像棉花。
　　We went to the livingroom. I picked up a football magazine, founda picture of Dixie Howell, showed it to Jem and said, "This looks likeyou." That was the nicest thing I could think to say to him, but itwas no help. He sat by the windows, hunched down in a rocking chair,scowling, waiting. Daylight faded.
我们去了客厅。我拿起一本橄榄球杂志，找到一张迪克西·豪厄尔的照片，拿给杰姆看，说：“这张照片看起来很像你。” 这是我所能想到的对他说的最客气的话，但毫无帮助。他坐在窗边，弓着身子坐在摇椅上，皱着眉头，等着。天色渐渐暗了下来。
　　Two geological ages later, we heard the soles of Atticus's shoesscrape the front steps. The screen door slammed, there was a pause-Atticus was at the hat rack in the hall- and we heard him call, "Jem!"His voice was like the winter wind.
过了两个地质年代，我们听见阿蒂克斯的鞋底刮过前门台阶的声音。纱门砰地关上，一阵沉默——阿蒂克斯正站在门厅的衣帽架旁——我们听见他喊道：“杰姆！”他的声音如同冬日的寒风。
　　Atticus switched on the ceiling light in the livingroom and found usthere, frozen still. He carried my baton in one hand; its filthyyellow tassel trailed on the rug. He held out his other hand; itcontained fat camellia buds.
阿蒂克斯打开客厅的天花板灯，发现我们一动不动地站在那儿。他一只手拿着我的指挥棒，脏兮兮的黄色流苏拖在地毯上。他伸出另一只手，手里拿着肥大的山茶花蕾。
　　"Jem," he said, "are you responsible for this?""Yes sir.""Why'd you do it?"Jem said softly, "She said you lawed for niggers and trash.""You did this because she said that?"Jem's lips moved, but his, "Yes sir," was inaudible.
“杰姆，”他说，“这事儿你负责吗？”“是的，先生。”“你为什么这么做？”杰姆轻声说道，“她说你为黑鬼和垃圾打官司。”“因为她这么说，你才这么做的？”杰姆的嘴唇动了动，但他那句“是的，先生”的话却听不见。
　　"Son, I have no doubt that you've been annoyed by yourcontemporaries about me lawing for niggers, as you say, but to dosomething like this to a sick old lady is inexcusable. I stronglyadvise you to go down and have a talk with Mrs. Dubose," said Atticus.
“儿子，正如你所说，我替黑鬼打官司的事儿，你肯定被你的同辈人气得不行，但对一个病恹恹的老太太做出这种事，实在不可原谅。我强烈建议你去找杜博斯太太谈谈。”阿蒂克斯说。
　　"Come straight home afterward."Jem did not move.
“然后直接回家。”杰姆一动不动。
　　"Go on, I said."I followed Jem out of the livingroom. "Come back here," Atticus saidto me. I came back. ...
　　Atticus picked up the Mobile Press and sat down in the rockingchair Jem had vacated. For the life of me, I did not understand how hecould sit there in cold blood and read a newspaper when his only sonstood an excellent chance of being murdered with a Confederate Armyrelic. Of course Jem antagonized me sometimes until I could killhim, but when it came down to it he was all I had. Atticus did notseem to realize this, or if he did he didn't care.
阿蒂克斯拿起《流动报》，坐到杰姆腾出的摇椅上。我真是想不通，他唯一的儿子极有可能被南方邦联军的遗物杀害，他怎么能冷血地坐在那里看报纸。当然，杰姆有时会惹我生气，直到我杀了他，但事到临头，他就是我的全部了。阿蒂克斯似乎没有意识到这一点，或者即使意识到了，他也不在乎。
　　I hated him for that, but when you are in trouble you becomeeasily tired: soon I was hiding in his lap and his arms were aroundme.
我为此恨他，但是当你遇到麻烦时，你很容易疲倦：很快我就躲在他的腿上，他的手臂环绕着我。
　　"You're mighty big to be rocked," he said.
他说：“你已经太大了，不适合摇晃。”
　　"You don't care what happens to him," I said. "You just send himon to get shot at when all he was doin' was standin' up for you."Atticus pushed my head under his chin. "It's not time to worry yet,"he said. "I never thought Jem'd be the one to lose his head over this-thought I'd have more trouble with you."I said I didn't see why we had to keep our heads anyway, that nobodyI knew at school had to keep his head about anything.
“你才不管他出什么事呢，”我说。“你干脆把他送去挨枪子儿，他不过是替你出头而已。”阿蒂克斯把我的头按到他的下巴底下。“现在还不是担心的时候，”他说。“我从没想过杰姆会因为这件事失去理智——我以为你会给我带来更多麻烦。”我说我不明白我们为什么要保持冷静，我认识的学校里没人需要对任何事保持冷静。
　　"Scout," said Atticus, "when summer comes you'll have to keep yourhead about far worse things… it's not fair for you and Jem, I knowthat, but sometimes we have to make the best of things, and the way weconduct ourselves when the chips are down- well, all I can say is,when you and Jem are grown, maybe you'll look back on this with somecompassion and some feeling that I didn't let you down. This case, TomRobinson's case, is something that goes to the essence of a man'sconscience- Scout, I couldn't go to church and worship God if I didn'ttry to help that man.""Atticus, you must be wrong…""How's that?""Well, most folks seem to think they're right and you're wrong…""They're certainly entitled to think that, and they're entitled tofull respect for their opinions," said Atticus, "but before I can livewith other folks I've got to live with myself. The one thing thatdoesn't abide by majority rule is a person's conscience."When Jem returned, he found me still in Atticus's lap, "Well,son?" said Atticus. He set me on my feet, and I made a secretreconnaissance of Jem. He seemed to be all in one piece, but he hada queer look on his face. Perhaps she had given him a dose of calomel.
“斯库特，”阿蒂克斯说，“等夏天来了，你就得好好想想更糟糕的事情了……我知道这对你和杰姆不公平，但有时候我们必须尽力而为，而我们在危急关头的处事方式——嗯，我只能说，等你和杰姆长大后，也许你们会带着同情心回顾这件事，会觉得我没有让你们失望。汤姆·罗宾逊的案子，关乎一个人良心的本质——斯库特，如果我不尽力帮助他，我就不能去教堂敬拜上帝。”“阿蒂克斯，你肯定错了……”“怎么回事？”“嗯，大多数人似乎都认为自己是对的，而你是错的……”“他们当然有权这么想，他们也有权获得对他们意见的充分尊重，”阿蒂克斯说，“但在我能和别人相处之前，我必须先和自己相处。唯一不能遵守多数人的规则是一个人的良心。"杰姆回来时，发现我还坐在阿蒂克斯的腿上。"怎么样，儿子？"阿蒂克斯说。他扶我起来，我偷偷地打量着杰姆。他看起来完好无损，只是脸上带着一种奇怪的表情。也许她给他吃了一剂甘汞。
　　"I cleaned it up for her and said I was sorry, but I ain't, and thatI'd work on 'em ever Saturday and try to make 'em grow back out.""There was no point in saying you were sorry if you aren't," saidAtticus. "Jem, she's old and ill. You can't hold her responsible forwhat she says and does. Of course, I'd rather she'd have said it to methan to either of you, but we can't always have our 'druthers."Jem seemed fascinated by a rose in the carpet. "Atticus," he said,"she wants me to read to her.""Read to her?""Yes sir. She wants me to come every afternoon after school andSaturdays and read to her out loud for two hours. Atticus, do I haveto?""Certainly.""But she wants me to do it for a month.""Then you'll do it for a month."Jem planted his big toe delicately in the center of the rose andpressed it in. Finally he said, "Atticus, it's all right on thesidewalk but inside it's- it's all dark and creepy. There's shadowsand things on the ceiling…"Atticus smiled grimly. "That should appeal to your imagination. Justpretend you're inside the Radley house."The following Monday afternoon Jem and I climbed the steep frontsteps to Mrs. Dubose's house and padded down the open hallway. Jem,armed with Ivanhoe and full of superior knowledge, knocked at thesecond door on the left.
“我帮她清理了，说了对不起，但我并不后悔，而且我每个星期六都会去处理，尽量让它们长回来。”“如果你不后悔，那道歉也没意义，”阿蒂克斯说。“杰姆，她又老又病。你不能让她为自己的言行负责。当然，我宁愿她跟我说，而不是跟你们俩，但我们不能总是随心所欲。”杰姆似乎被地毯上的一朵玫瑰迷住了。 “阿蒂克斯，”他说，“她想让我给她读书。”“给她读书？”“是的，先生。她想让我每天下午放学后和星期六都来给她大声朗读两个小时。阿蒂克斯，我一定要读吗？”“当然。”“但她想让我读一个月。”“那你就读一个月。”杰姆小心翼翼地把大脚趾插在玫瑰花的中央，按了下去。最后他说：“阿蒂克斯，在人行道上还好，但里面——里面——全是黑暗和令人毛骨悚然的。天花板上有阴影和东西……”阿蒂克斯阴森地笑了笑。“这应该能激发你的想象力。就假装你在拉德利家。”接下来的星期一下午，我和杰姆爬上杜博斯太太家陡峭的台阶，沿着敞开的走廊走去。杰姆拿着《艾芬豪》，知识渊博，敲了敲左边第二扇门。
　　"Mrs. Dubose?" he called. ...
　　Jessie opened the wood door and unlatched the screen door. ...
　　"Is that you, Jem Finch?" she said. "You got your sister with you. Idon't know-""Let 'em both in, Jessie," said Mrs. Dubose. Jessie admitted usand went off to the kitchen.
“是你吗，杰姆·芬奇？”她说。“你妹妹也和你在一起。我不知道——”“让他们俩进来，杰西，”杜博斯太太说。杰西让我们进去，然后去了厨房。
　　An oppressive odor met us when we crossed the threshold, an odor Ihad met many times in rain-rotted gray houses where there are coal-oillamps, water dippers, and unbleached domestic sheets. It always mademe afraid, expectant, watchful.
我们刚跨过门槛，一股令人窒息的气味扑面而来。这种气味我以前在那些被雨水侵蚀、摆放着煤油灯、水勺和未漂白的家用床单的灰色房子里闻过无数次。它总是让我感到恐惧、期待、警惕。
　　In the corner of the room was a brass bed, and in the bed was Mrs.
房间的角落里有一张黄铜床，床上躺着夫人。
　　Dubose. I wondered if Jem's activities had put her there, and for amoment I felt sorry for her. She was lying under a pile of quiltsand looked almost friendly.
杜博斯。我琢磨着是不是杰姆的活动让她落得如此下场，一时间我有点同情她。她躺在一堆被子下面，看起来几乎还挺友善的。
　　There was a marble-topped washstand by her bed; on it were a glasswith a teaspoon in it, a red ear syringe, a box of absorbent cotton,and a steel alarm clock standing on three tiny legs.
她的床边有一个大理石台面的洗脸架，上面放着一个玻璃杯，里面有一把茶匙，一个红色的耳冲洗器，一盒脱脂棉，还有一个立在三条小腿上的钢制闹钟。
　　"So you brought that dirty little sister of yours, did you?" was hergreeting.
“所以你把你那个脏兮兮的小妹妹也带来了，是吗？”她这样打招呼。
　　Jem said quietly, "My sister ain't dirty and I ain't scared of you,"although I noticed his knees shaking.
杰姆平静地说道：“我妹妹不脏，我也不怕你。”但我注意到他的膝盖在颤抖。
　　I was expecting a tirade, but all she said was, "You may commencereading, Jeremy."Jem sat down in a cane-bottom chair and opened Ivanhoe. I pulledup another one and sat beside him.
我以为她会滔滔不绝地批评我，但她只说了一句：“杰里米，你可以开始读了。”杰姆坐在一把藤椅上，打开了《艾芬豪》。我拉过另一把椅子，坐在他旁边。
　　"Come closer," said Mrs. Dubose. "Come to the side of the bed."We moved our chairs forward. This was the nearest I had ever been toher, and the thing I wanted most to do was move my chair back again.
“过来，”杜博斯太太说，“到床边来。”我们把椅子往前挪了挪。这是我距离她最近的一次，我最想做的就是把椅子往后挪。
　　She was horrible. Her face was the color of a dirty pillowcase,and the corners of her mouth glistened with wet, which inched like aglacier down the deep grooves enclosing her chin. Old-age liverspots dotted her cheeks, and her pale eyes had black pinpointpupils. Her hands were knobby, and the cuticles were grown up over herfingernails. Her bottom plate was not in, and her upper lip protruded;from time to time she would draw her nether lip to her upper plate andcarry her chin with it. This made the wet move faster.
她真是丑陋不堪。她的脸色像脏枕套一样，嘴角闪着泪光，像冰川般顺着下巴周围的深沟缓缓流淌。脸颊上点缀着老年斑，苍白的眼睛里有着黑色的针尖状瞳孔。她的双手骨节分明，指甲盖上长满了角质层。下唇没合拢，上唇突出；她不时地会把下唇拉向上唇，下巴也跟着一起滑落。这让泪水流得更快了。
　　I didn't look any more than I had to. Jem reopened Ivanhoe andbegan reading. I tried to keep up with him, but he read too fast. WhenJem came to a word he didn't know, he skipped it, but Mrs. Dubosewould catch him and make him spell it out. Jem read for perhaps twentyminutes, during which time I looked at the soot-stained mantelpiece,out the window, anywhere to keep from looking at her. As he readalong, I noticed that Mrs. Dubose's corrections grew fewer and fartherbetween, that Jem had even left one sentence dangling in mid-air.
我没多看。杰姆重新打开《艾芬豪》，开始读起来。我努力跟上他的节奏，但他读得太快了。杰姆遇到不认识的单词就直接跳过，但杜博斯太太会抓住他，让他拼读出来。杰姆读了大概二十分钟，期间我望着沾满烟灰的壁炉架，望着窗外，想方设法不去看她。他读着读着，我注意到杜博斯太太的修改越来越少，甚至有一句话悬在半空中。
　　She was not listening.
她没有在听。
　　I looked toward the bed. ...
　　Something had happened to her. She lay on her back, with thequilts up to her chin. Only her head and shoulders were visible. Herhead moved slowly from side to side. From time to time she wouldopen her mouth wide, and I could see her tongue undulate faintly.
她出事了。她仰面躺着，被子盖到下巴。只能看到她的头和肩膀。她的头慢慢地左右摇晃。她不时张大嘴巴，我能看到她的舌头微微动着。
　　Cords of saliva would collect on her lips; she would draw them in,then open her mouth again. Her mouth seemed to have a privateexistence of its own. It worked separate and apart from the rest ofher, out and in, like a clam hole at low tide. Occasionally it wouldsay, "Pt," like some viscous substance coming to a boil.
唾液如丝般流淌在她的唇上；她会把它们吸进去，然后再张开嘴。她的嘴仿佛拥有一个独立的存在。它独立于身体其他部分，时而进出，就像退潮时的蛤蜊洞。偶尔，它会发出“Pt”的声音，就像某种粘稠的物质沸腾了一样。
　　I pulled Jem's sleeve.
我拉了拉杰姆的袖子。
　　He looked at me, then at the bed. Her head made its regular sweeptoward us, and Jem said, "Mrs. Dubose, are you all right?" She did nothear him.
他看了看我，又看了看床。她的头有节奏地朝我们这边望过来，杰姆说：“杜博斯太太，你还好吗？”她没听见。
　　The alarm clock went off and scared us stiff. A minute later, nervesstill tingling, Jem and I were on the sidewalk headed for home. We didnot run away, Jessie sent us: before the clock wound down she was inthe room pushing Jem and me out of it.
闹钟响了，吓得我们浑身僵硬。一分钟后，我和杰姆神经紧绷，走在人行道上，往家走去。我们没有逃跑，是杰西让我们跑的：闹钟还没响，她就进了房间，把我和杰姆推了出去。
　　"Shoo," she said, "you all go home."Jem hesitated at the door.
“嘘，”她说，“你们都回家吧。”杰姆在门口犹豫了。
　　"It's time for her medicine," Jessie said. As the door swung shutbehind us I saw Jessie walking quickly toward Mrs. Dubose's bed.
“该给她吃药了，”杰西说。门在我们身后关上时，我看到杰西快步走向杜博斯太太的床。
　　It was only three forty-five when we got home, so Jem and Idrop-kicked in the back yard until it was time to meet Atticus.
我们到家时才三点四十五分，所以杰姆和我在后院玩耍，直到与阿蒂克斯见面的时间。
　　Atticus had two yellow pencils for me and a football magazine for Jem,which I suppose was a silent reward for our first day's session withMrs. Dubose. Jem told him what happened.
阿蒂克斯给我拿了两支黄色铅笔，给杰姆拿了一本足球杂志，我想这算是对我们第一天和杜博斯太太见面的无声奖励吧。杰姆把事情的经过告诉了他。
　　"Did she frighten you?" asked Atticus.
“她吓到你了吗？”阿蒂克斯问。
　　"No sir," said Jem, "but she's so nasty. She has fits orsomethin'. She spits a lot.""She can't help that. When people are sick they don't look nicesometimes.""She scared me," I said.
“不是，先生，”杰姆说，“但她真的太讨厌了。她老是发脾气什么的。她吐口水很厉害。”“她也没办法。人生病的时候，有时看起来就不太好看。”“她吓到我了，”我说。
　　Atticus looked at me over his glasses. "You don't have to go withJem, you know."The next afternoon at Mrs. Dubose's was the same as the first, andso was the next, until gradually a pattern emerged: everything wouldbegin normally- that is, Mrs. Dubose would hound Jem for a while onher favorite subjects, her camellias and our father's nigger-lovingpropensities; she would grow increasingly silent, then go away fromus. The alarm clock would ring, Jessie would shoo us out, and the restof the day was ours.
阿蒂克斯透过眼镜看着我。“你不必和杰姆一起去，你知道的。”第二天下午在杜博斯太太家和第一天一样，再下一天也一样，直到逐渐形成了一种模式：一切都会正常开始——也就是说，杜博斯太太会缠着杰姆聊她最喜欢的话题，比如她的山茶花，还有我们爸爸喜欢黑鬼的癖好；她会越来越沉默，然后离开我们。闹钟会响，杰西会把我们赶出去，剩下的时间就属于我们了。
　　"Atticus," I said one evening, "what exactly is a nigger-lover?"Atticus's face was grave. "Has somebody been calling you that?""No sir, Mrs. Dubose calls you that. She warms up every afternooncalling you that. Francis called me that last Christmas, that'swhere I first heard it.""Is that the reason you jumped on him?" asked Atticus.
“阿蒂克斯，”一天晚上我问，“‘黑鬼爱好者’到底是什么？”阿蒂克斯的脸色阴沉。“有人这么叫你吗？”“没有，先生，杜博斯太太这么叫你。她每天下午都这么叫你，热情洋溢。去年圣诞节弗朗西斯也这么叫我，那是我第一次听到这个称呼。”“这就是你攻击他的原因吗？”阿蒂克斯问。
　　"Yes sir…""Then why are you asking me what it means?"I tried to explain to Atticus that it wasn't so much what Francissaid that had infuriated me as the way he had said it. "It was likehe'd said snot-nose or somethin'.""Scout," said Atticus, "nigger-lover is just one of those terms thatdon't mean anything- like snot-nose. It's hard to explain- ignorant,trashy people use it when they think somebody's favoring Negroesover and above themselves. It's slipped into usage with some peoplelike ourselves, when they want a common, ugly term to label somebody.""You aren't really a nigger-lover, then, are you?""I certainly am. I do my best to love everybody… I'm hard put,sometimes- baby, it's never an insult to be called what somebodythinks is a bad name. It just shows you how poor that person is, itdoesn't hurt you. So don't let Mrs. Dubose get you down. She hasenough troubles of her own."One afternoon a month later Jem was ploughing his way through SirWalter Scout, as Jem called him, and Mrs. Dubose was correcting him atevery turn, when there was a knock on the door. "Come in!" shescreamed.
“是的，先生……”“那你为什么问我这是什么意思？”我试图向阿蒂克斯解释，让我愤怒的不是弗朗西斯说了什么，而是他说话的方式。 “就好像他说的是‘鼻涕虫’什么的。”“斯库特，”阿蒂克斯说，“‘黑鬼爱好者’只是那些毫无意义的词之一——就像‘鼻涕虫’一样。这很难解释——那些无知、下流的人，觉得有人偏袒黑人，凌驾于自己之上，就会用这个词。像我们这样的人，想用一个俗气的词来指代别人，就会偷偷地用这个词。”“那你其实不是个‘黑鬼爱好者’，对吧？”“我当然是。我尽力爱每个人……有时候我很难受——宝贝，被别人叫一个别人认为不好听的名字，这绝不是什么侮辱。这只会说明这个人有多穷，对你并没有什么伤害。所以别让杜博斯太太影响你。她自己已经够麻烦的了。”一个月后的一个下午，杰姆正在艰难地读着《沃尔特·斯库特爵士》，杰姆叫他，杜博斯太太每次都纠正他，这时门上传来敲门声。“进来！”她尖叫道。
　　Atticus came in. He went to the bed and took Mrs. Dubose's hand.
阿蒂克斯走了进来。他走到床边，握住了杜博斯太太的手。
　　"I was coming from the office and didn't see the children," he said.
“我刚从办公室回来，没看到孩子们，”他说。
　　"I thought they might still be here."Mrs. Dubose smiled at him. For the life of me I could not figure outhow she could bring herself to speak to him when she seemed to hatehim so. "Do you know what time it is, Atticus?" she said. "Exactlyfourteen minutes past five. The alarm clock's set for five-thirty. Iwant you to know that."It suddenly came to me that each day we had been staying a littlelonger at Mrs. Dubose's, that the alarm clock went off a few minuteslater every day, and that she was well into one of her fits by thetime it sounded. Today she had antagonized Jem for nearly two hourswith no intention of having a fit, and I felt hopelessly trapped.
“我以为他们可能还在呢。”杜博斯太太对他笑了笑。我真是想不通，她怎么能忍心跟他说话，明明她那么恨他。“阿蒂克斯，你知道现在几点吗？”她说。“五点十四分。闹钟定在五点半。我想让你知道。”我突然意识到，我们在杜博斯太太家待的时间每天都比以前长了一点，闹钟也每天都晚响几分钟，而且等闹钟响的时候，她已经快要发疯了。今天她已经惹了杰姆将近两个小时，却丝毫没有发疯的意图，我感觉自己完全被困住了。
　　The alarm clock was the signal for our release; if one day it didnot ring, what would we do?
闹钟是我们获释的信号；如果有一天它不响了，我们该怎么办？
　　"I have a feeling that Jem's reading days are numbered," saidAtticus.
“我感觉杰姆读书的日子已经不多了，”阿提克斯说。
　　"Only a week longer, I think," she said, "just to make sure…"Jem rose. "But-"Atticus put out his hand and Jem was silent. On the way home, Jemsaid he had to do it just for a month and the month was up and itwasn't fair.
“我想，就再过一个星期吧，”她说，“只是为了确认一下……”杰姆站了起来。“可是——”阿蒂克斯伸出手，杰姆沉默了。回家的路上，杰姆说他只能做一个月，一个月就到期了，这不公平。
　　"Just one more week, son," said Atticus.
“儿子，再过一周就好了。”阿蒂克斯说。
　　"No," said Jem. ...
　　"Yes," said Atticus. ...
　　The following week found us back at Mrs. Dubose's. The alarm clockhad ceased sounding, but Mrs. Dubose would release us with, "That'lldo," so late in the afternoon Atticus would be home reading thepaper when we returned. Although her fits had passed off, she was inevery other way her old self: when Sir Walter Scott became involved inlengthy descriptions of moats and castles, Mrs. Dubose would becomebored and pick on us:
接下来的一周，我们又回到了杜博斯太太家。闹钟已经停了，但杜博斯太太会说“行了”就放我们走了。所以，下午晚些时候，我们回来的时候，阿蒂克斯已经在家里看报纸了。虽然她的病已经好了，但她在其他方面还是和以前一样：每当沃尔特·司各特爵士开始滔滔不绝地描述护城河和城堡时，杜博斯太太就会觉得无聊，然后找我们的茬：
　　"Jeremy Finch, I told you you'd live to regret tearing up mycamellias. You regret it now, don't you?"Jem would say he certainly did.
“杰里米·芬奇，我告诉过你，毁掉我的山茶花，你会后悔一辈子的。你现在后悔了，是不是？”杰姆会说他当然后悔了。
　　"Thought you could kill my Snow-on-the-Mountain, did you? Well,Jessie says the top's growing back out. Next time you'll know how todo it right, won't you? You'll pull it up by the roots, won't you?"Jem would say he certainly would.
“你以为你能把我的雪山弄死吗？杰西说，树顶又长出来了。下次你知道怎么做对吧？你会把它连根拔起，对吧？”杰姆会说他一定会的。
　　"Don't you mutter at me, boy! You hold up your head and say yesma'am. Don't guess you feel like holding it up, though, with yourfather what he is."Jem's chin would come up, and he would gaze at Mrs. Dubose with aface devoid of resentment. Through the weeks he had cultivated anexpression of polite and detached interest, which he would presentto her in answer to her most blood-curdling inventions.
“别跟我嘟囔，孩子！你抬起头说‘是的，夫人’。不过，你别指望你父亲是那样的人，你也想抬起头来。”杰姆会扬起下巴，用毫无怨恨的表情凝视着杜博斯太太。几个星期以来，他已经养成了一种礼貌而超然的关心表情，每当她编造出什么令人毛骨悚然的谎言时，他都会用这种表情来回应她。
　　At last the day came. When Mrs. Dubose said, "That'll do," oneafternoon, she added, "And that's all. Good-day to you."It was over. We bounded down the sidewalk on a spree of sheerrelief, leaping and howling.
终于，这一天到来了。一天下午，杜博斯太太说：“就这样吧。”她又补充道：“就这样吧。祝你早日康复。”一切都结束了。我们如释重负地沿着人行道蹦蹦跳跳，欢呼雀跃。
　　That spring was a good one: the days grew longer and gave us moreplaying time. Jem's mind was occupied mostly with the vital statisticsof every college football player in the nation. Every night Atticuswould read us the sports pages of the newspapers. Alabama might goto the Rose Bowl again this year, judging from its prospects, notone of whose names we could pronounce. Atticus was in the middle ofWindy Seaton's column one evening when the telephone rang.
那年春天过得真好：白天变长了，我们有了更多比赛时间。杰姆满脑子都是全国大学橄榄球运动员的重要数据。阿蒂克斯每天晚上都会给我们读报纸的体育版。从阿拉巴马队的前景来看，他们今年可能再次打进玫瑰碗，可惜我们一个名字都念不出来。一天晚上，阿蒂克斯正在读温迪·西顿的专栏，这时电话铃响了。
　　He answered it, then went to the hat rack in the hall. "I'm goingdown to Mrs. Dubose's for a while," he said. "I won't be long."But Atticus stayed away until long past my bedtime. When he returnedhe was carrying a candy box. Atticus sat down in the livingroom andput the box on the floor beside his chair.
他接了电话，然后走到走廊的衣帽架旁。“我要去杜博斯太太家一会儿，”他说，“很快就回来。”但阿蒂克斯一直没来，直到我过了很久才回来。他回来时，手里拿着一个糖果盒。阿蒂克斯在客厅里坐下，把盒子放在椅子旁边的地板上。
　　"What'd she want?" asked Jem.
“她想要什么？”杰姆问。
　　We had not seen Mrs. Dubose for over a month. She was never on theporch any more when we passed.
我们已有一个多月没见到杜博斯太太了。我们经过时，她再也不在门廊上了。
　　"She's dead, son," said Atticus. "She died a few minutes ago.""Oh," said Jem. "Well.""Well is right," said Atticus. "She's not suffering any more. Shewas sick for a long time. Son, didn't you know what her fits were?"Jem shook his head.
“儿子，她死了，”阿蒂克斯说。“她几分钟前就死了。”“哦，”杰姆说。“嗯。”“嗯，没错，”阿蒂克斯说。“她现在不疼了。她病了很久。儿子，你不知道她是怎么发病的吗？”杰姆摇了摇头。
　　"Mrs. Dubose was a morphine addict," said Atticus. "She took it as apain-killer for years. The doctor put her on it. She'd have spentthe rest of her life on it and died without so much agony, but she wastoo contrary-""Sir?" said Jem.
“杜博斯太太对吗啡上瘾了，”阿蒂克斯说。“她多年来一直把它当作止痛药。医生给她开了这种药。她本来可以靠它度过余生，死后也不会那么痛苦，但她太任性了——”“先生？”杰姆说。
　　Atticus said, "Just before your escapade she called me to make herwill. Dr. Reynolds told her she had only a few months left. Herbusiness affairs were in perfect order but she said, 'There's stillone thing out of order.'""What was that?" Jem was perplexed.
阿蒂克斯说：“就在你逃走之前，她打电话给我，让我立遗嘱。雷诺兹医生告诉她，她只剩几个月的时间了。她的生意都安排得井井有条，可她说，‘还有一件事不对劲。’” “什么事？”杰姆一头雾水。
　　"She said she was going to leave this world beholden to nothingand nobody. Jem, when you're sick as she was, it's all right to takeanything to make it easier, but it wasn't all right for her. Shesaid she meant to break herself of it before she died, and that's whatshe did."Jem said, "You mean that's what her fits were?""Yes, that's what they were. Most of the time you were reading toher I doubt if she heard a word you said. Her whole mind and body wereconcentrated on that alarm clock. If you hadn't fallen into her hands,I'd have made you go read to her anyway. It may have been somedistraction. There was another reason-""Did she die free?" asked Jem.
“她说她要离开这个世界，不依赖任何人，也不依赖任何事物。杰姆，像她那样病得厉害，想办法缓解一下也无妨，但她不行。她说她打算在死前戒掉病魔，而且她也确实这么做了。”杰姆说：“你是说她就是因为这个病发作的？”“是的，就是这样。你给她读书的时候，我怀疑她根本没听到你说的话。她全身心都集中在那个闹钟上。要不是你落入她手里，我早就让你去给她读书了。这或许能让她分心。还有另一个原因——”“她死的时候是自由的吗？”杰姆问。
　　"As the mountain air," said Atticus. "She was conscious to the last,almost. Conscious," he smiled, "and cantankerous. She stilldisapproved heartily of my doings, and said I'd probably spend therest of my life bailing you out of jail. She had Jessie fix you thisbox-"Atticus reached down and picked up the candy box. He handed it toJem.
“就像山里的空气一样，”阿蒂克斯说。“她几乎到最后一刻都神志清醒。神志清醒，”他笑着说，“而且脾气暴躁。她仍然强烈反对我的所作所为，还说我可能要用余生来保释你出狱。她让杰西给你修好了这个盒子——”阿蒂克斯伸手拿起糖果盒，递给了杰姆。
　　Jem opened the box. Inside, surrounded by wads of damp cotton, was awhite, waxy, perfect camellia. It was a Snow-on-the-Mountain.
杰姆打开盒子。里面，被一团团湿漉漉的棉花包围着，是一朵洁白如蜡、完美无瑕的山茶花。这是一朵“山上雪”。
　　Jem's eyes nearly popped out of his head. "Old hell-devil, oldhell-devil!" he screamed, flinging it down. "Why can't she leave mealone?"In a flash Atticus was up and standing over him. Jem buried his facein Atticus's shirt front. "Sh-h," he said. "I think that was her wayof telling you- everything's all right now, Jem, everything's allright. You know, she was a great lady.""A lady?" Jem raised his head. His face was scarlet. "After allthose things she said about you, a lady?""She was. She had her own views about things, a lot different frommine, maybe… son, I told you that if you hadn't lost your head I'dhave made you go read to her. I wanted you to see something about her-I wanted you to see what real courage is, instead of getting theidea that courage is a man with a gun in his hand. It's when youknow you're licked before you begin but you begin anyway and you seeit through no matter what. You rarely win, but sometimes you do.
杰姆的眼珠子都快瞪出来了。“老魔鬼，老魔鬼！”他尖叫着，把头猛地甩了下去。“她为什么就不能让我一个人待着？”阿蒂克斯一眨眼就站了起来，站在他面前。杰姆把脸埋在阿蒂克斯的衬衫前襟里。“嘘，”他说。“我想那是她告诉你的方式——现在一切都好了，杰姆，一切都好了。你知道，她是一位伟大的女士。”“一位女士？”杰姆抬起头。他的脸涨得通红。 “她说了那么多关于你的事情，你还是个淑女吗？”“她确实是。她对事物有自己的看法，可能和我的很不一样……儿子，我告诉过你，如果你没疯的话，我就让你去给她读书。我想让你了解她——我想让你明白什么是真正的勇气，而不是认为勇气就是手里拿着枪。勇气是当你还没开始就知道自己会被打败，但你还是会继续，并且不顾一切地坚持到底。你很少能赢，但有时你也能赢。”
　　Mrs. Dubose won, all ninety-eight pounds of her. According to herviews, she died beholden to nothing and nobody. She was the bravestperson I ever knew."Jem picked up the candy box and threw it in the fire. He picked upthe camellia, and when I went off to bed I saw him fingering thewide petals. Atticus was reading the paper.
杜博斯太太赢了，她九十八磅的体重让她完蛋了。在她看来，她死时什么也不欠任何人。她是我认识的最勇敢的人。“杰姆捡起糖果盒，扔进了火里。他捡起了山茶花，我上床睡觉时看到他正抚摸着宽大的花瓣。阿蒂克斯正在看报纸。”
　　PART TWO12Jem was twelve. He was difficult to live with, inconsistent,moody. His appetite was appalling, and he told me so many times tostop pestering him I consulted Atticus: "Reckon he's got atapeworm?" Atticus said no, Jem was growing. I must be patient withhim and disturb him as little as possible.
第二部分12杰姆十二岁了。他很难相处，反复无常，喜怒无常。他的胃口糟透了，他多次告诉我别再缠着他了。我问阿蒂克斯：“你觉得他是不是感染了绦虫？”阿蒂克斯说不是，杰姆还在长身体。我必须对他有耐心，尽量少打扰他。
　　This change in Jem had come about in a matter of weeks. Mrs.
杰姆的这种变化是在几周内发生的。
　　Dubose was not cold in her grave- Jem had seemed grateful enough formy company when he went to read to her. Overnight, it seemed, Jemhad acquired an alien set of values and was trying to impose them onme: several times he went so far as to tell me what to do. After onealtercation when Jem hollered, "It's time you started bein' a girl andacting right!" I burst into tears and fled to Calpurnia.
杜博斯在坟墓里并不冰冷——杰姆去给她读书的时候，似乎对我的陪伴心存感激。杰姆似乎一夜之间就养成了一套陌生的价值观，并试图把它们强加给我：有好几次，他甚至指手画脚地指手画脚。有一次，杰姆大喊：“你也该像个女孩子一样，做点正事了！”，我顿时泪流满面，逃到了卡尔珀尼亚那里。
　　"Don't you fret too much over Mister Jem-" she began.
“别太担心杰姆先生——”她开口道。
　　"Mister Jem?""Yeah, he's just about Mister Jem now.""He ain't that old," I said. "All he needs is somebody to beat himup, and I ain't big enough.""Baby," said Calpurnia, "I just can't help it if Mister Jem'sgrowin' up. He's gonna want to be off to himself a lot now, doin'
“杰姆先生？”“是啊，他现在就是杰姆先生了。”“他还没那么老，”我说。“他只需要有人揍他，我还没长大。”“宝贝，”卡波妮娅说，“杰姆先生长大了，我也没办法。他现在肯定很想一个人待着，做……
　　whatever boys do, so you just come right on in the kitchen when youfeel lonesome. We'll find lots of things to do in here."The beginning of that summer boded well: Jem could do as he pleased;Calpurnia would do until Dill came. She seemed glad to see me when Iappeared in the kitchen, and by watching her I began to think therewas some skill involved in being a girl.
不管男孩子做什么，你觉得孤单的时候就直接来厨房吧。我们会在这里找到很多事情做的。“那年夏天的开始预示着好兆头：杰姆想做什么就做什么；卡尔珀尼亚可以一直忙到迪尔来。我出现在厨房时，她似乎很高兴见到我，看着她，我开始觉得做女孩子也需要一些技巧。”
　　But summer came and Dill was not there. I received a letter and asnapshot from him. The letter said he had a new father whose picturewas enclosed, and he would have to stay in Meridian because theyplanned to build a fishing boat. His father was a lawyer like Atticus,only much younger. Dill's new father had a pleasant face, which mademe glad Dill had captured him, but I was crushed. Dill concluded bysaying he would love me forever and not to worry, he would come get meand marry me as soon as he got enough money together, so please write.
但夏天来了，迪尔却不在。我收到了他的一封信和一张快照。信里说他有了新爸爸，照片也附在信里，他必须留在默里迪恩，因为他们计划造一艘渔船。他爸爸和阿蒂克斯一样是个律师，只是年轻得多。迪尔的新爸爸面容和蔼，这让我很高兴迪尔抓住了他，但我却感到心碎。迪尔最后说，他会永远爱我，不用担心，等他攒够钱了，就会来找我娶我，所以请写信给我。
　　The fact that I had a permanent fiance was little compensation forhis absence: I had never thought about it, but summer was Dill bythe fishpool smoking string, Dill's eyes alive with complicatedplans to make Boo Radley emerge; summer was the swiftness with whichDill would reach up and kiss me when Jem was not looking, the longingswe sometimes felt each other feel. With him, life was routine; withouthim, life was unbearable. I stayed miserable for two days.
我有个永久的未婚夫，但这并不能弥补他缺席的遗憾：我从未想过，夏天就是迪尔在鱼池边抽着烟，迪尔的眼睛里充满了复杂的计划，好让布·拉德利出现；夏天就是迪尔趁杰姆不注意时飞快地伸出手吻我，还有我们有时彼此感受到的渴望。和他在一起，生活很规律；没有他，生活就难以忍受。我难受了两天。
　　As if that were not enough, the state legislature was called intoemergency session and Atticus left us for two weeks. The Governorwas eager to scrape a few barnacles off the ship of state; therewere sit-down strikes in Birmingham; bread lines in the cities grewlonger, people in the country grew poorer. But these were eventsremote from the world of Jem and me.
似乎这还不够，州议会召开了紧急会议，阿蒂克斯离开了我们两个星期。州长急于清理州政府这艘大船上的积垢；伯明翰爆发了静坐罢工；城市里排队领取救济食品的队伍越来越长，乡村里的人们越来越穷。但这些事离我和杰姆的世界很远。
　　We were surprised one morning to see a cartoon in the MontgomeryAdvertiser above the caption, "Maycomb's Finch." It showed Atticusbarefooted and in short pants, chained to a desk: he was diligentlywriting on a slate while some frivolous-looking girls yelled,"Yoo-hoo!" at him.
一天早上，我们惊讶地看到《蒙哥马利广告报》上刊登了一幅漫画，标题是“梅科姆的雀鸟”。漫画中，阿蒂克斯光着脚，穿着短裤，被锁在桌子上：他正勤奋地在石板上写字，而几个看上去轻浮的女孩对他大喊：“唷！”
　　"That's a compliment," explained Jem. "He spends his time doin'
“这是夸奖，”杰姆解释道，“他花时间做
　　things that wouldn't get done if nobody did 'em.""Huh?"In addition to Jem's newly developed characteristics, he hadacquired a maddening air of wisdom.
如果没有人去做，这些事情就无法完成。”“嗯？”除了杰姆新形成的性格外，他还获得了一种令人抓狂的智慧气质。
　　"Oh, Scout, it's like reorganizing the tax systems of the countiesand things. That kind of thing's pretty dry to most men.""How do you know?""Oh, go on and leave me alone. I'm readin' the paper."Jem got his wish. I departed for the kitchen.
“哦，斯库特，这就像重新组织各县的税收制度之类的。这种事对大多数人来说都很枯燥。”“你怎么知道的？”“哦，快走吧，别烦我。我正在看报纸呢。”杰姆如愿以偿。我朝厨房走去。
　　While she was shelling peas, Calpurnia suddenly said, "What am Igonna do about you all's church this Sunday?""Nothing, I reckon. Atticus left us collection."Calpurnia's eyes narrowed and I could tell what was going throughher mind. "Cal," I said, "you know we'll behave. We haven't doneanything in church in years."Calpurnia evidently remembered a rainy Sunday when we were bothfatherless and teacherless. Left to its own devices, the class tiedEunice Ann Simpson to a chair and placed her in the furnace room. Weforgot her, trooped upstairs to church, and were listening quietlyto the sermon when a dreadful banging issued from the radiatorpipes, persisting until someone investigated and brought forthEunice Ann saying she didn't want to play Shadrach any more- Jem Finchsaid she wouldn't get burnt if she had enough faith, but it was hotdown there.
卡尔普尼亚正在剥豌豆，突然问道：“这周日我去你们教堂做什么？”“我想没什么事了。阿蒂克斯留给我们自己收。”卡尔普尼亚眯起了眼睛，我知道她在想什么。“卡尔，”我说，“你知道我们会乖乖的。我们已经好几年没去教堂了。”卡尔普尼亚显然还记得一个下雨的星期天，那时我们既没有父亲，也没有老师。全班同学把尤妮丝·安·辛普森绑在一把椅子上，关进了火炉房。我们把她忘了，成群结队地跑上楼去教堂，正静静地听着布道，突然暖气管里传来一阵可怕的砰砰声，一直持续到有人过来查看，把尤妮丝·安叫了出来。她说她不想再扮演沙得拉了——杰姆·芬奇说，只要她有足够的信心，就不会被烧伤，但那里太热了。
　　"Besides, Cal, this isn't the first time Atticus has left us," Iprotested.
“此外，卡尔，这不是阿蒂克斯第一次离开我们，”我抗议道。
　　"Yeah, but he makes certain your teacher's gonna be there. Ididn't hear him say this time- reckon he forgot it." Calpurniascratched her head. Suddenly she smiled. "How'd you and Mister Jemlike to come to church with me tomorrow?""Really?""How 'bout it?" grinned Calpurnia.
“是啊，但他确保你的老师会来。这次我没听他说——估计他忘了。”卡尔珀尼亚挠了挠头。突然，她笑了。“你和杰姆莱克先生明天跟我一起去教堂怎么样？”“真的吗？”“怎么样？”卡尔珀尼亚咧嘴一笑。
　　If Calpurnia had ever bathed me roughly before, it was nothingcompared to her supervision of that Saturday night's routine. She mademe soap all over twice, drew fresh water in the tub for each rinse;she stuck my head in the basin and washed it with Octagon soap andcastile. She had trusted Jem for years, but that night she invaded hisprivacy and provoked an outburst: "Can't anybody take a bath in thishouse without the whole family lookin'?"Next morning she began earlier than usual, to "go over our clothes."When Calpurnia stayed overnight with us she slept on a folding cotin the kitchen; that morning it was covered with our Sundayhabiliments. She had put so much starch in my dress it came up likea tent when I sat down. She made me wear a petticoat and she wrapped apink sash tightly around my waist. She went over my patent-leathershoes with a cold biscuit until she saw her face in them.
如果卡尔珀尼亚以前粗暴地给我洗澡，那也比不上她周六晚上对我的监督。她让我浑身涂了两遍肥皂，每次都从浴缸里接清水冲洗；她把我的头伸进脸盆里，用八角肥皂和橄榄清洁剂清洗。多年来她一直信任杰姆，但那天晚上她侵犯了他的隐私，惹得他勃然大怒：“难道在这栋房子里，谁洗澡都不能不让全家人都看到吗？”第二天早上，她比平时更早开始“检查我们的衣服”。卡尔珀尼亚在我们家过夜时，睡在厨房的折叠床上；那天早上，折叠床上盖着我们周日穿的衣服。她给我的裙子上浆太多了，我一坐下，裙子就像帐篷一样鼓了起来。她让我穿上衬裙，并用一条粉色腰带紧紧地系在我的腰上。她用一块冷饼干检查我的漆皮鞋，直到能从鞋里看到自己的脸。
　　"It's like we were goin' to Mardi Gras," said Jem. "What's allthis for, Cal?""I don't want anybody sayin' I don't look after my children," shemuttered. "Mister Jem, you absolutely can't wear that tie with thatsuit. It's green.""'smatter with that?""Suit's blue. Can't you tell?""Hee hee," I howled, "Jem's color blind."His face flushed angrily, but Calpurnia said, "Now you all quitthat. You're gonna go to First Purchase with smiles on your faces."First Purchase African M.E. Church was in the Quarters outside thesouthern town limits, across the old sawmill tracks. It was an ancientpaint-peeled frame building, the only church in Maycomb with a steepleand bell, called First Purchase because it was paid for from the firstearnings of freed slaves. Negroes worshiped in it on Sundays and whitemen gambled in it on weekdays.
“就像我们要去参加狂欢节一样，”杰姆说。“卡尔，你这是干什么？”“我不想让人说我不照顾孩子，”她咕哝道。“杰姆先生，你绝对不能穿那套西装配那条领带。它是绿色的。”“这有什么关系？”“西装是蓝色的。你看不出来吗？”“嘻嘻，”我吼道，“杰姆是色盲。”他气得满脸通红，但卡尔珀尼亚说：“现在你们都别再这样了。你们要面带微笑地去‘第一购’教堂。”‘第一购’非洲裔 ME 教堂位于镇南边界外的街区，穿过旧锯木厂的铁轨。那是一栋油漆剥落的古老木结构建筑，是梅科姆唯一一座有尖塔和钟的教堂，之所以叫‘第一购’，是因为它是由获得自由的奴隶的首批收入建造的。黑人星期天在那里做礼拜，白人工作日在那里赌博。
　　The churchyard was brick-hard clay, as was the cemetery beside it.
教堂墓地是砖砌的硬粘土，旁边的墓地也是如此。
　　If someone died during a dry spell, the body was covered with chunksof ice until rain softened the earth. A few graves in the cemeterywere marked with crumbling tombstones; newer ones were outlined withbrightly colored glass and broken Coca-Cola bottles. Lightning rodsguarding some graves denoted dead who rested uneasily; stumps ofburned-out candles stood at the heads of infant graves. It was a happycemetery.
如果有人在干旱时期去世，尸体就会被冰块覆盖，直到雨水软化泥土。墓地里有几座坟墓，墓碑摇摇欲坠；较新的坟墓则用色彩鲜艳的玻璃和破碎的可口可乐瓶勾勒出轮廓。有些坟墓上安放着避雷针，象征着死者安息不安；婴儿坟墓的顶端则竖立着燃尽的蜡烛头。这是一片幸福的墓地。
　　The warm bittersweet smell of clean Negro welcomed us as weentered the churchyard- Hearts of Love hairdressing mingled withasafoetida, snuff, Hoyt's Cologne, Brown's Mule, peppermint, and lilactalcum.
当我们进入教堂墓地时，一股干净的黑人温暖而苦乐参半的气味扑面而来——爱之心美发的香味混合着阿魏、鼻烟、霍伊特古龙水、布朗骡子、薄荷和丁香的香味。
　　When they saw Jem and me with Calpurnia, the men stepped back andtook off their hats; the women crossed their arms at their waists,weekday gestures of respectful attention. They parted and made a smallpathway to the church door for us. Calpurnia walked between Jem andme, responding to the greetings of her brightly clad neighbors.
当他们看到杰姆、我和卡尔珀尼亚在一起时，男人们纷纷后退，脱帽致敬；女人们则双手交叉抱腰，这是工作日常见的表示尊敬的姿势。他们分开，为我们让出一条通往教堂门口的小路。卡尔珀尼亚走在杰姆和我中间，回应着她衣着鲜艳的邻居们的问候。
　　"What you up to, Miss Cal?" said a voice behind us.
“你在干什么，卡尔小姐？”我们身后传来一个声音。
　　Calpurnia's hands went to our shoulders and we stopped and lookedaround: standing in the path behind us was a tall Negro woman. Herweight was on one leg; she rested her left elbow in the curve of herhip, pointing at us with upturned palm. She was bullet-headed withstrange almond-shaped eyes, straight nose, and an Indian-bow mouth.
卡尔普尼亚的手搭在我们肩上，我们停下脚步，环顾四周：一个高个子黑人女人站在我们身后的小路上。她单腿站立，左肘抵着臀部，手掌向上指着我们。她脑袋呈子弹形，眼睛像杏仁一样怪异，鼻子挺直，嘴巴像印第安弓。
　　She seemed seven feet high. ...
　　I felt Calpurnia's hand dig into my shoulder. "What you want, Lula?"she asked, in tones I had never heard her use. She spoke quietly,contemptuously.
我感觉到卡尔普尼亚的手按在我的肩膀上。“你想干什么，卢拉？”她问道，语气我从未听过。她语气轻柔，语气轻蔑。
　　"I wants to know why you bringin' white chillun to nigger church.""They's my comp'ny," said Calpurnia. Again I thought her voicestrange: she was talking like the rest of them.
“我想知道你为什么带白人孩子去黑鬼教堂。”“他们是我的同伴，”卡尔普尼亚说。我又觉得她的声音很奇怪：她说话的方式和其他人一样。
　　"Yeah, an' I reckon you's comp'ny at the Finch house durin' theweek."A murmur ran through the crowd. "Don't you fret," Calpurniawhispered to me, but the roses on her hat trembled indignantly.
“是啊，我估计这周芬奇家也会有你的。”人群中传来一阵低语。“别担心，”卡尔普尼亚低声对我说，但她帽子上的玫瑰却愤愤不平地颤抖着。
　　When Lula came up the pathway toward us Calpurnia said, "Stopright there, nigger."Lula stopped, but she said, "You ain't got no business bringin'
当卢拉沿着小路朝我们走来时，卡尔普尼亚说：“停下，黑鬼。”卢拉停了下来，但她说：“你没必要带
　　white chillun here- they got their church, we got our'n. It is ourchurch, ain't it, Miss Cal?"Calpurnia said, "It's the same God, ain't it?"Jem said, "Let's go home, Cal, they don't want us here-"I agreed: they did not want us here. I sensed, rather than saw, thatwe were being advanced upon. They seemed to be drawing closer to us,but when I looked up at Calpurnia there was amusement in her eyes.
白人孩子来了——他们有他们的教堂，我们有我们的教堂。这是我们的教堂，对吧，卡尔小姐？“卡尔珀尼亚说：“是同一个上帝，对吧？”杰姆说：“卡尔，我们回家吧，他们不想让我们待在这里——”我同意：他们不想让我们待在这里。与其说是看到，不如说是感觉到我们被逼近了。他们似乎在向我们逼近，但当我抬头看卡尔珀尼亚时，她眼里流露出一丝戏谑。
　　When I looked down the pathway again, Lula was gone. In her placewas a solid mass of colored people.
当我再次沿着小路望去时，卢拉已经不见了。取而代之的是一大群黑人。
　　One of them stepped from the crowd. It was Zeebo, the garbagecollector. "Mister Jem," he said, "we're mighty glad to have you allhere. Don't pay no 'tention to Lula, she's contentious becauseReverend Sykes threatened to church her. She's a troublemaker from wayback, got fancy ideas an' haughty ways- we're mighty glad to haveyou all."With that, Calpurnia led us to the church door where we were greetedby Reverend Sykes, who led us to the front pew.
其中一个人从人群中走了出来。那是收垃圾的泽博。“杰姆先生，”他说，“我们非常高兴你们都来。别理会卢拉，她总是吵吵嚷嚷，因为赛克斯牧师威胁要把她送进教堂。她从小就是个惹是生非的人，脑子进水了，举止傲慢——我们非常高兴你们都来。”说完，卡尔普尼亚领着我们来到教堂门口，赛克斯牧师迎接了我们，并把我们领到前排座位上。
　　First Purchase was unceiled and unpainted within. Along its wallsunlighted kerosene lamps hung on brass brackets; pine benches servedas pews. Behind the rough oak pulpit a faded pink silk bannerproclaimed God Is Love, the church's only decoration except arotogravure print of Hunt's The Light of the World. There was nosign of piano, organ, hymn-books, church programs- the familiarecclesiastical impedimenta we saw every Sunday. It was dim inside,with a damp coolness slowly dispelled by the gathering congregation.
首次购买教堂内部没有天花板，也没有油漆。教堂墙壁上悬挂着黄铜支架，阳光下的煤油灯点亮了教堂；松木长椅充当着教堂的座位。粗糙的橡木讲台后面，挂着一条褪色的粉色丝绸横幅，上面写着“上帝就是爱”，这是教堂里除了亨特的《世界之光》的轮转凹版印刷品之外唯一的装饰。教堂里没有钢琴、管风琴、赞美诗集和教堂节目单——这些都是我们每个星期天都会看到的常见的教堂设施。教堂里光线昏暗，潮湿的凉意正被聚集的信徒慢慢驱散。
　　At each seat was a cheap cardboard fan bearing a garish Garden ofGethsemane, courtesy Tyndal's Hardware Co. （You-Name-It-We-Sell-It）。
每个座位上都放着一把廉价的纸板扇子，上面画着俗丽的客西马尼花园，由廷德尔五金公司（您说出名字，我们卖给您）提供。
　　Calpurnia motioned Jem and me to the end of the row and placedherself between us. She fished in her purse, drew out herhandkerchief, and untied the hard wad of change in its corner. Shegave a dime to me and a dime to Jem. "We've got ours," he whispered.
卡尔珀尼亚示意杰姆和我到那排座位的尽头，然后自己站在我们中间。她翻了翻钱包，掏出手帕，解开包在手帕一角的硬邦邦的零钱。她给了我一角，又给了杰姆一角。“我们拿到了我们的，”他低声说。
　　"You keep it," Calpurnia said, "you're my company." Jem's faceshowed brief indecision on the ethics of withholding his own dime, buthis innate courtesy won and he shifted his dime to his pocket. I didlikewise with no qualms.
“你留着吧，”卡尔珀尼亚说，“你是我的同伴。”杰姆脸上闪过一丝犹豫，不知道该不该把自己的一角硬币拿出来，但他与生俱来的礼貌最终赢得了胜利，他把一角硬币放进了口袋。我也毫不犹豫地照做了。
　　"Cal," I whispered, "where are the hymn-books?""We don't have any," she said.
“卡尔，”我低声问道，“赞美诗集在哪儿？”“我们没有，”她说。
　　"Well how-?""Sh-h," she said. Reverend Sykes was standing behind the pulpitstaring the congregation to silence. He was a short, stocky man in ablack suit, black tie, white shirt, and a gold watch-chain thatglinted in the light from the frosted windows.
“那怎么——？” “嘘，”她说。赛克斯牧师站在讲台后面，凝视着会众，让他们安静下来。他身材矮壮，身穿黑色西装，系着黑色领带，白衬衫，戴着一条金表链，在结霜的窗户透出的光线下闪闪发光。
　　He said, "Brethren and sisters, we are particularly glad to havecompany with us this morning. Mister and Miss Finch. You all knowtheir father. Before I begin I will read some announcements."Reverend Sykes shuffled some papers, chose one and held it atarm's length. "The Missionary Society meets in the home of SisterAnnette Reeves next Tuesday. Bring your sewing."He read from another paper. "You all know of Brother TomRobinson's trouble. He has been a faithful member of First Purchasesince he was a boy. The collection taken up today and for the nextthree Sundays will go to Helen- his wife, to help her out at home."I punched Jem. "That's the Tom Atticus's de-""Sh-h!"I turned to Calpurnia but was hushed before I opened my mouth.
他说：“弟兄姐妹们，今天早上我们特别高兴有你们作伴。芬奇先生和芬奇小姐。你们都认识他们的父亲。开始之前，我要宣读一些公告。”赛克斯牧师翻动着几张纸，选了一张，举到手臂远的地方。“传教士协会下周二在安妮特·里夫斯修女家聚会。带上你们的针线活儿。”他又读了一张纸。“你们都知道汤姆·罗宾逊弟兄的苦恼。他从小就是‘第一采购’的忠实会员。今天以及接下来三个星期天募集到的善款将捐给他的妻子海伦，帮她做家务。”我给了杰姆一拳。“那是汤姆·阿蒂克斯的……”“嘘！”我转向卡尔珀尼亚，但还没等我开口，她就被制止了。
　　Subdued, I fixed my attention upon Reverend Sykes, who seemed to bewaiting for me to settle down. "Will the music superintendent leadus in the first hymn," he said.
我压抑着情绪，把注意力集中在赛克斯牧师身上，他似乎在等我平静下来。“请音乐总监带领我们唱第一首赞美诗好吗？”他问道。
　　Zeebo rose from his pew and walked down the center aisle, stoppingin front of us and facing the congregation. He was carrying a batteredhymn-book. He opened it and said, "We'll sing number twoseventy-three."This was too much for me. "How're we gonna sing it if there ain'tany hymn-books?"Calpurnia smiled. "Hush baby," she whispered, "you'll see in aminute."Zeebo cleared his throat and read in a voice like the rumble ofdistant artillery:
泽博从座位上站起来，沿着中间的过道走下去，在我们面前停下，面向会众。他手里拿着一本破旧的赞美诗本。他打开说：“我们唱第二七十三首。”这对我来说太难了。“如果没有赞美诗本，我们怎么唱？”卡尔普尼亚笑了。“嘘，”她低声说，“一会儿就知道了。”泽博清了清嗓子，用像远处炮声隆隆的声音念道：
　　"There's a land beyond the river."Miraculously on pitch, a hundred voices sang out Zeebo's words.
“河的那边有一片土地。” 一百个声音奇迹般地齐声唱出了泽布的话。
　　The last syllable, held to a husky hum, was followed by Zeebo saying,"That we call the sweet forever."Music again swelled around us; the last note lingered and Zeebomet it with the next line: "And we only reach that shore by faith'sdecree."The congregation hesitated, Zeebo repeated the line carefully, andit was sung. At the chorus Zeebo closed the book, a signal for thecongregation to proceed without his help.
最后一个音节，伴随着沙哑的嗡嗡声，泽博接着说道：“我们称之为永恒的甜蜜。”音乐再次在我们周围响起；最后一个音符萦绕不去，泽博用下一句歌词来回应：“唯有信仰的旨意，我们才能抵达彼岸。”会众犹豫了一下，泽博小心翼翼地重复了一遍，然后唱了起来。合唱时，泽博合上了书，示意会众可以继续前行，无需他的帮助。
　　On the dying notes of "Jubilee," Zeebo said, "In that far-offsweet forever, just beyond the shining river."Line for line, voices followed in simple harmony until the hymnended in a melancholy murmur.
在《禧年》的最后音符中，泽博说道，“在那遥远而甜蜜的永恒中，就在闪亮的河流对面。”一行又一行，歌声以简单的和声唱出，直到最后，人们以忧郁的低语唱出赞美诗。
　　I looked at Jem, who was looking at Zeebo from the corners of hiseyes. I didn't believe it either, but we had both heard it.
我看了看杰姆，他正用眼角的余光看着泽布。我也不相信，但我们俩都听到了。
　　Reverend Sykes then called on the Lord to bless the sick and thesuffering, a procedure no different from our church practice, exceptReverend Sykes directed the Deity's attention to several specificcases.
随后，赛克斯牧师祈求上帝保佑病人和受苦的人，这一过程与我们教堂的做法没有什么不同，只是赛克斯牧师将神的注意力引向了几个具体案例。
　　His sermon was a forthright denunciation of sin, an austeredeclaration of the motto on the wall behind him: he warned his flockagainst the evils of heady brews, gambling, and strange women.
他的布道是对罪恶的直率谴责，是对他身后墙上的座右铭的严肃宣告：他警告他的信徒要警惕烈酒、赌博和陌生女人的危害。
　　Bootleggers caused enough trouble in the Quarters, but women wereworse. Again, as I had often met it in my own church, I was confrontedwith the Impurity of Women doctrine that seemed to preoccupy allclergymen.
私酒贩子在“街区”制造的麻烦已经够多了，但女人更糟糕。就像我在自己的教堂里经常遇到的那样，我又一次遭遇了“妇女不洁”的教义，这似乎困扰着所有神职人员。
　　Jem and I had heard the same sermon Sunday after Sunday, with onlyone exception. Reverend Sykes used his pulpit more freely to expresshis views on individual lapses from grace: Jim Hardy had been absentfrom church for five Sundays and he wasn't sick; Constance Jackson hadbetter watch her ways- she was in grave danger for quarreling with herneighbors; she had erected the only spite fence in the history ofthe Quarters.
我和杰姆每个星期天都听着同样的布道，只有一次例外。赛克斯牧师在讲坛上更自由地表达了他对个人失德行为的看法：吉姆·哈迪已经五个星期天没来教堂了，但他并没有生病；康斯坦斯·杰克逊最好注意自己的言行——她与邻居吵架的风险极大；她竖起了区历史上唯一一道“恶意篱笆”。
　　Reverend Sykes closed his sermon. He stood beside a table in frontof the pulpit and requested the morning offering, a proceeding thatwas strange to Jem and me. One by one, the congregation came forwardand dropped nickels and dimes into a black enameled coffee can. Jemand I followed suit, and received a soft, "Thank you, thank you," asour dimes clinked.
赛克斯牧师结束了布道。他站在讲台前的一张桌子旁，请求大家捐献晨礼，这对我和杰姆来说都很陌生。会众一个接一个地走上前来，把五分硬币和一角硬币扔进一个黑色搪瓷咖啡罐里。杰姆要求我照做，我听到一声轻柔的“谢谢，谢谢”，我们的一角硬币叮当作响。
　　To our amazement, Reverend Sykes emptied the can onto the tableand raked the coins into his hand. He straightened up and said,"This is not enough, we must have ten dollars."The congregation stirred. "You all know what it's for- Helen can'tleave those children to work while Tom's in jail. If everybody givesone more dime, we'll have it-" Reverend Sykes waved his hand andcalled to someone in the back of the church. "Alec, shut the doors.
令我们惊讶的是，赛克斯牧师把罐子里的钱倒在桌子上，然后把硬币塞到手里。他直起身子说：“这还不够，我们得凑十美元。”会众动了起来。“你们都知道这笔钱是干什么用的——汤姆坐牢的时候，海伦不能让那些孩子去工作。如果每个人再捐一角钱，我们就……”赛克斯牧师挥了挥手，朝教堂后面的人喊道：“亚历克，把门关上。”
　　Nobody leaves here till we have ten dollars."Calpurnia scratched in her handbag and brought forth a batteredleather coin purse. "Naw Cal," Jem whispered, when she handed him ashiny quarter, "we can put ours in. Gimme your dime, Scout."The church was becoming stuffy, and it occurred to me thatReverend Sykes intended to sweat the amount due out of his flock. Fanscrackled, feet shuffled, tobacco-chewers were in agony.
“没十块钱谁也别想离开这里。”卡尔普尼亚在手提包里翻找了翻，掏出一个破旧的皮钱包。“不，卡尔，”她递给杰姆一枚闪亮的二十五美分硬币时，杰姆低声说，“我们可以把我们的放进去。把你的一角钱给我，斯库特。”教堂里越来越闷，我突然想到，赛克斯牧师打算从他的信徒身上榨取应得的钱。风扇噼啪作响，脚步声嘈杂，嚼着烟草的人痛苦不堪。
　　Reverend Sykes startled me by saying sternly, "Carlow Richardson,I haven't seen you up this aisle yet."A thin man in khaki pants came up the aisle and deposited a coin.
赛克斯牧师严厉地说道，让我吃了一惊，“卡洛·理查森，我还没见过你走过这条过道呢。”一个穿着卡其裤的瘦削男人沿着过道走来，扔了一枚硬币。
　　The congregation murmured approval.
会众低声表示赞同。
　　Reverend Sykes then said, "I want all of you with no children tomake a sacrifice and give one more dime apiece. Then we'll have it."Slowly, painfully, the ten dollars was collected. The door wasopened, and the gust of warm air revived us. Zeebo lined OnJordan's Stormy Banks, and church was over.
赛克斯牧师接着说：“我希望你们所有没有孩子的人都做出一点牺牲，每人再捐出一角钱。这样我们就有钱了。” 十美元慢慢地、痛苦地凑齐了。门开了，一股暖风吹来，让我们精神一振。泽博在《约旦暴风雨的河岸》上排成一排，教堂礼拜结束了。
　　I wanted to stay and explore, but Calpurnia propelled me up theaisle ahead of her. At the church door, while she paused to talkwith Zeebo and his family, Jem and I chatted with Reverend Sykes. Iwas bursting with questions, but decided I would wait and letCalpurnia answer them.
我想留下来探索一番，但卡尔普尼亚却把我推到她前面的过道上。在教堂门口，她停下来和泽博一家交谈，而我和杰姆则和赛克斯牧师闲聊。我满脑子都是问题，但决定等卡尔普尼亚回答。
　　"We were 'specially glad to have you all here," said Reverend Sykes.
赛克斯牧师说：“我们特别高兴你们能来这里。”
　　"This church has no better friend than your daddy."My curiosity burst: "Why were you all takin' up collection for TomRobinson's wife?""Didn't you hear why?" asked Reverend Sykes. "Helen's got threelittle'uns and she can't go out to work-""Why can't she take 'em with her, Reverend?" I asked. It wascustomary for field Negroes with tiny children to deposit them inwhatever shade there was while their parents worked- usually thebabies sat in the shade between two rows of cotton. Those unable tosit were strapped papoose-style on their mothers' backs, or resided inextra cotton bags.
“这教堂里没有比你爸爸更好的朋友了。”我突然好奇起来：“你们为什么要为汤姆·罗宾逊的妻子募捐？”“你们没听说为什么吗？”赛克斯牧师问。“海伦有三个孩子，她不能出去干活——”“牧师，她为什么不能带着他们一起去？”我问。按照惯例，带着小孩的黑奴会在父母干活的时候把孩子放在阴凉处——通常婴儿会坐在两排棉花地之间的阴凉处。那些坐不住的孩子，就会像婴儿背篓一样被绑在母亲的背上，或者放在备用的棉布袋里。
　　Reverend Sykes hesitated. "To tell you the truth, Miss JeanLouise, Helen's finding it hard to get work these days… when it'spicking time, I think Mr. Link Deas'll take her.""Why not, Reverend?"Before he could answer, I felt Calpurnia's hand on my shoulder. Atits pressure I said, "We thank you for lettin' us come." Jem echoedme, and we made our way homeward.
赛克斯牧师犹豫了一下。“说实话，琼·路易丝小姐，海伦最近很难找到工作……等到采摘的时候，我想林克·迪斯先生会收留她。”“为什么不呢，牧师？”他还没来得及回答，我就感觉到卡尔普尼亚的手搭在我的肩膀上。我迫不及待地说：“谢谢您让我们来。”杰姆也附和着我的话，然后我们一起回家了。
　　"Cal, I know Tom Robinson's in jail an' he's done somethin' awful,but why won't folks hire Helen?" I asked.
“卡尔，我知道汤姆·罗宾逊在监狱里，他做了一些可怕的事情，但为什么人们不雇用海伦呢？”我问道。
　　Calpurnia, in her navy voile dress and tub of a hat, walkedbetween Jem and me. "It's because of what folks say Tom's done," shesaid. "Folks aren't anxious to- to have anything to do with any of hisfamily.""Just what did he do, Cal?"Calpurnia sighed. "Old Mr. Bob Ewell accused him of rapin' hisgirl an' had him arrested an' put in jail-""Mr. Ewell?" My memory stirred. "Does he have anything to do withthose Ewells that come every first day of school an' then go home?
卡尔珀尼亚穿着海军蓝薄纱连衣裙，戴着一顶宽大的帽子，走到杰姆和我之间。“是因为人们说汤姆干了什么，”她说。“人们都不想——不想跟他家任何人有任何瓜葛。”“他到底干了什么，卡尔？”卡尔珀尼亚叹了口气。“老鲍勃·尤厄尔先生指控他强奸了他的女朋友，把他逮捕入狱——”“尤厄尔先生？”我的记忆涌上心头。“他和那些开学第一天就来学校然后回家的尤厄尔家的人有什么瓜葛吗？”
　　Why, Atticus said they were absolute trash- I never heard Atticus talkabout folks the way he talked about the Ewells. He said-""Yeah, those are the ones.""Well, if everybody in Maycomb knows what kind of folks the Ewellsare they'd be glad to hire Helen… what's rape, Cal?""It's somethin' you'll have to ask Mr. Finch about," she said. "Hecan explain it better than I can. You all hungry? The Reverend tooka long time unwindin' this morning, he's not usually so tedious.""He's just like our preacher," said Jem, "but why do you all singhymns that way?""Linin'?" she asked.
哎呀，阿蒂克斯说他们简直是垃圾——我从来没听过阿蒂克斯像谈论尤厄尔一家那样谈论别人。他说——“是啊，就是他们。”“好吧，如果梅科姆镇的每个人都知道尤厄尔一家是什么样的人，他们肯定很乐意雇佣海伦……强奸是什么，卡尔？”“这你得问芬奇先生，”她说。“他解释得比我好。你们饿了吗？牧师今天早上花了很长时间才放松下来，他平时可没这么乏味。”“他就像我们的牧师，”杰姆说，“不过你们为什么都那样唱赞美诗呢？”“唱诗？”她问。
　　"Is that what it is?""Yeah, it's called linin'. They've done it that way as long as I canremember."Jem said it looked like they could save the collection money for ayear and get some hymn-books.
“是吗？”“是啊，这叫‘linin’。我记得他们一直都是这么做的。”杰姆说，看来他们可以把募捐的钱攒一年，买些赞美诗集。
　　Calpurnia laughed. "Wouldn't do any good," she said. "They can'tread.""Can't read?" I asked. "All those folks?""That's right," Calpurnia nodded. "Can't but about four folks inFirst Purchase read… I'm one of 'em.""Where'd you go to school, Cal?" asked Jem.
卡尔珀尼亚笑了。“没什么用，”她说。“他们不识字。”“不识字？”我问。“所有这些人？”“没错，”卡尔珀尼亚点点头。“不识字，但‘第一购’里大概有四个人识字……我就是其中之一。”“卡尔，你在哪里上学的？”杰姆问。
　　"Nowhere. Let's see now, who taught me my letters? It was MissMaudie Atkinson's aunt, old Miss Buford-""Are you that old?""I'm older than Mr. Finch, even." Calpurnia grinned. "Not sure howmuch, though. We started rememberin' one time, trying to figure outhow old I was- I can remember back just a few years more'n he can,so I'm not much older, when you take off the fact that men can'tremember as well as women.""What's your birthday, Cal?""I just have it on Christmas, it's easier to remember that way- Idon't have a real birthday.""But Cal," Jem protested, "you don't look even near as old asAtticus.""Colored folks don't show their ages so fast," she said.
“哪儿也记不清。现在想想，是谁教我写字母的？是莫迪·阿特金森小姐的姑妈，老布福德小姐——”“你这么老吗？”“我甚至比芬奇先生还老。”卡尔珀尼亚咧嘴一笑。“不过，我也不确定多少。有一次我们开始回忆，想弄清楚我当时有多大——我能比他多记得几年以前的事情，所以，如果除去男人记性不如女人这个因素，我其实也没大多少。”“你的生日是哪天，卡尔？”“我只是在圣诞节过生日，这样更容易记住——我没有真正的生日。”“可是卡尔，”杰姆辩解道，“你看起来甚至不像阿蒂克斯那么老。”“黑人不会这么容易显老，”她说。
　　"Maybe because they can't read. Cal, did you teach Zeebo?""Yeah, Mister Jem. There wasn't a school even when he was a boy. Imade him learn, though."Zeebo was Calpurnia's eldest son. If I had ever thought about it,I would have known that Calpurnia was of mature years- Zeebo hadhalf-grown children- but then I had never thought about it.
“可能是因为他们不识字。卡尔，你教过泽布吗？”“是的，杰姆先生。他小时候也没有学校。不过，我让他学的。”泽布是卡尔普尼亚的长子。如果我早点想一想，就会知道卡尔普尼亚已经成年了——泽布有半大的孩子——但我从来没想过这一点。
　　"Did you teach him out of a primer, like us?" I asked.
“你们也像我们一样，用入门书教他吗？”我问。
　　"No, I made him get a page of the Bible every day, and there was abook Miss Buford taught me out of- bet you don't know where I got it,"she said.
“不，我让他每天读一页《圣经》，那是布福德小姐教我的一本书——我打赌你不知道我在哪里找到的，”她说。
　　We didn't know.
我们不知道。
　　Calpurnia said, "Your Granddaddy Finch gave it to me.""Were you from the Landing?" Jem asked. "You never told us that.""I certainly am, Mister Jem. Grew up down there between the BufordPlace and the Landin'. I've spent all my days workin' for theFinches or the Bufords, an' I moved to Maycomb when your daddy andyour mamma married.""What was the book, Cal?" I asked.
卡尔珀尼亚说：“你爷爷芬奇给我的。”“你是‘码头’人吗？”杰姆问。“你从来没跟我们说过。”“我当然是，杰姆先生。我在布福德广场和‘码头’之间长大。我整天都在给芬奇家或布福德家打工，你爸妈结婚后我就搬到了梅科姆。”“那是什么书，卡尔？”我问。
　　"Blackstone's Commentaries."Jem was thunderstruck. "You mean you taught Zeebo outa that?""Why yes sir, Mister Jem." Calpurnia timidly put her fingers toher mouth. "They were the only books I had. Your grandaddy said Mr.
“《布莱克斯通评注》。”杰姆惊呆了。“你是说你教了泽布这本书？”“当然，杰姆先生。”卡波妮娅胆怯地用手指捂住嘴。“我只有这几本书。你爷爷说……”
　　Blackstone wrote fine English-""That's why you don't talk like the rest of 'em," said Jem.
布莱克斯通的英语写得很好——“这就是为什么你说话和其他人不一样的原因，”杰姆说。
　　"The rest of who?""Rest of the colored folks. Cal, but you talked like they did inchurch…"That Calpurnia led a modest double life never dawned on me. The ideathat she had a separate existence outside our household was a novelone, to say nothing of her having command of two languages.
“剩下的谁？”“其他黑人。卡尔，不过你说话就像他们在教堂里那样……”我从来没想过卡尔普尼亚过着简朴的双重生活。她在我们家之外还有独立的生活，这对我来说很新鲜，更不用说她精通两种语言了。
　　"Cal," I asked, "why do you talk nigger-talk to the- to your folkswhen you know it's not right?""Well, in the first place I'm black-""That doesn't mean you hafta talk that way when you know better,"said Jem.
“卡尔，”我问道，“为什么你明知道这是不对的，还要跟你的家人说黑鬼话呢？”“嗯，首先，我是黑人——”“但这并不意味着你必须那样说话，因为你知道得更多，”杰姆说。
　　Calpurnia tilted her hat and scratched her head, then pressed herhat down carefully over her ears. "It's right hard to say," shesaid. "Suppose you and Scout talked colored-folks' talk at home it'dbe out of place, wouldn't it? Now what if I talked white-folks' talkat church, and with my neighbors? They'd think I was puttin' on airsto beat Moses.""But Cal, you know better," I said.
卡尔珀尼亚歪了歪帽子，挠了挠头，然后小心翼翼地把帽子压到耳朵上。“这很难说，”她说。“万一你和斯库特在家里说黑人的闲话，那可就不合适了，不是吗？要是我在教堂和邻居们面前说白人的闲话怎么办？他们会以为我是在装腔作势，想揍摩西。”“可是卡尔，你心里清楚，”我说。
　　"It's not necessary to tell all you know. It's not ladylike- inthe second place, folks don't like to have somebody around knowin'
“没必要把你知道的都说出来。这很不淑女——其次，人们不喜欢身边有人知道
　　more than they do. It aggravates 'em. You're not gonna change any ofthem by talkin' right, they've got to want to learn themselves, andwhen they don't want to learn there's nothing you can do but keep yourmouth shut or talk their language.""Cal, can I come to see you sometimes?"She looked down at me. "See me, honey? You see me every day.""Out to your house," I said. "Sometimes after work? Atticus canget me.""Any time you want to," she said. "We'd be glad to have you."We were on the sidewalk by the Radley Place. ...
　　"Look on the porch yonder," Jem said. ...
　　I looked over to the Radley Place, expecting to see its phantomoccupant sunning himself in the swing. The swing was empty. ...
　　"I mean our porch," said Jem. ...
　　I looked down the street. Enarmored, upright, uncompromising, AuntAlexandra was sitting in a rocking chair exactly as if she had satthere every day of her life. ...
　　13"Put my bag in the front bedroom, Calpurnia," was the first thingAunt Alexandra said. "Jean Louise, stop scratching your head," was thesecond thing she said. ...
　　Calpurnia picked up Aunty's heavy suitcase and opened the door. ...
　　"I'll take it," said Jem, and took it. I heard the suitcase hit thebedroom floor with a thump. The sound had a dull permanence about it. ...
　　"Have you come for a visit, Aunty?" I asked. Aunt Alexandra's visitsfrom the Landing were rare, and she traveled in state. She owned abright green square Buick and a black chauffeur, both kept in anunhealthy state of tidiness, but today they were nowhere to be seen. ...
　　"Didn't your father tell you?" she asked. ...
　　Jem and I shook our heads. ...
　　"Probably he forgot. He's not in yet, is he?""Nome, he doesn't usually get back till late afternoon," said Jem. ...
　　"Well, your father and I decided it was time I came to stay with youfor a while.""For a while" in Maycomb meant anything from three days to thirtyyears. Jem and I exchanged glances. ...
　　"Jem's growing up now and you are too," she said to me. "Wedecided that it would be best for you to have some feminine influence. ...
　　It won't be many years, Jean Louise, before you become interested inclothes and boys-"I could have made several answers to this: Cal's a girl, it would bemany years before I would be interested in boys, I would never beinterested in clothes… but I kept quiet. ...
　　"What about Uncle Jimmy?" asked Jem. "Is he comin', too?""Oh no, he's staying at the Landing. He'll keep the place going."The moment I said, "Won't you miss him?" I realized that this wasnot a tactful question. Uncle Jimmy present or Uncle Jimmy absent madenot much difference, he never said anything. Aunt Alexandra ignored myquestion. ...
　　I could think of nothing else to say to her. In fact I could neverthink of anything to say to her, and I sat thinking of past painfulconversations between us: How are you, Jean Louise? Fine, thank youma'am, how are you? Very well, thank you, what have you been doingwith yourself? Nothin'. Don't you do anything? Nome. Certainly youhave friends? Yessum. Well what do you all do? Nothin'. ...
　　It was plain that Aunty thought me dull in the extreme, because Ionce heard her tell Atticus that I was sluggish. ...
　　There was a story behind all this, but I had no desire to extract itfrom her then. Today was Sunday, and Aunt Alexandra was positivelyirritable on the Lord's Day. I guess it was her Sunday corset. She wasnot fat, but solid, and she chose protective garments that drew up herbosom to giddy heights, pinched in her waist, flared out her rear, andmanaged to suggest that Aunt Alexandra's was once an hour-glassfigure. From any angle, it was formidable. ...
　　The remainder of the afternoon went by in the gentle gloom thatdescends when relatives appear, but was dispelled when we heard acar turn in the driveway. It was Atticus, home from Montgomery. Jem,forgetting his dignity, ran with me to meet him. Jem seized hisbriefcase and bag, I jumped into his arms, felt his vague dry kiss andsaid, "'d you bring me a book? 'd you know Aunty's here?"Atticus answered both questions in the affirmative. "How'd youlike for her to come live with us?"I said I would like it very much, which was a lie, but one mustlie under certain circumstances and at all times when one can't doanything about them. ...
　　"We felt it was time you children needed- well, it's like this,Scout," Atticus said. "Your aunt's doing me a favor as well as youall. I can't stay here all day with you, and the summer's going tobe a hot one.""Yes sir," I said, not understanding a word he said. I had anidea, however, that Aunt Alexandra's appearance on the scene was notso much Atticus's doing as hers. Aunty had a way of declaring WhatIs Best For The Family, and I suppose her coming to live with us wasin that category. ...
　　Maycomb welcomed her. Miss Maudie Atkinson baked a Lane cake soloaded with shinny it made me tight; Miss Stephanie Crawford hadlong visits with Aunt Alexandra, consisting mostly of Miss Stephanieshaking her head and saying, "Uh, uh, uh." Miss Rachel next door hadAunty over for coffee in the afternoons, and Mr. Nathan Radley went sofar as to come up in the front yard and say he was glad to see her. ...
　　When she settled in with us and life resumed its daily pace, AuntAlexandra seemed as if she had always lived with us. Her MissionarySociety refreshments added to her reputation as a hostess （she did notpermit Calpurnia to make the delicacies required to sustain theSociety through long reports on Rice Christians）； she joined andbecame Secretary of the Maycomb Amanuensis Club. To all partiespresent and participating in the life of the county, Aunt Alexandrawas one of the last of her kind: she had river-boat, boarding-schoolmanners; let any moral come along and she would uphold it; she wasborn in the objective case; she was an incurable gossip. When AuntAlexandra went to school, self-doubt could not be found in anytextbook, so she knew not its meaning. She was never bored, andgiven the slightest chance she would exercise her royal prerogative: ...
　　she would arrange, advise, caution, and warn. ...
　　She never let a chance escape her to point out the shortcomings ofother tribal groups to the greater glory of our own, a habit thatamused Jem rather than annoyed him: "Aunty better watch how she talks-scratch most folks in Maycomb and they're kin to us."Aunt Alexandra, in underlining the moral of young Sam Merriweather'ssuicide, said it was caused by a morbid streak in the family. Let asixteen-year-old girl giggle in the choir and Aunty would say, "Itjust goes to show you, all the Penfield women are flighty."Everybody in Maycomb, it seemed, had a Streak: a Drinking Streak, aGambling Streak, a Mean Streak, a Funny Streak. ...
　　Once, when Aunty assured us that Miss Stephanie Crawford'stendency to mind other people's business was hereditary, Atticus said,"Sister, when you stop to think about it, our generation's practicallythe first in the Finch family not to marry its cousins. Would yousay the Finches have an Incestuous Streak?"Aunty said no, that's where we got our small hands and feet. ...
　　I never understood her preoccupation with heredity. Somewhere, I hadreceived the impression that Fine Folks were people who did the bestthey could with the sense they had, but Aunt Alexandra was of theopinion, obliquely expressed, that the longer a family had beensquatting on one patch of land the finer it was. ...
　　"That makes the Ewells fine folks, then," said Jem. The tribe ofwhich Burris Ewell and his brethren consisted had lived on the sameplot of earth behind the Maycomb dump, and had thrived on countywelfare money for three generations. ...
　　Aunt Alexandra's theory had something behind it, though. Maycomb wasan ancient town. It was twenty miles east of Finch's Landing,awkwardly inland for such an old town. But Maycomb would have beencloser to the river had it not been for the nimble-wittedness of oneSinkfield, who in the dawn of history operated an inn where twopig-trails met, the only tavern in the territory. Sinkfield, nopatriot, served and supplied ammunition to Indians and settlers alike,neither knowing or caring whether he was a part of the AlabamaTerritory or the Creek Nation so long as business was good. Businesswas excellent when Governor William Wyatt Bibb, with a view topromoting the newly created county's domestic tranquility,dispatched a team of surveyors to locate its exact center and thereestablish its seat of government. The surveyors, Sinkfield's guests,told their host that he was in the territorial confines of MaycombCounty, and showed him the probable spot where the county seat wouldbe built. Had not Sinkfield made a bold stroke to preserve hisholdings, Maycomb would have sat in the middle of Winston Swamp, aplace totally devoid of interest. Instead, Maycomb grew and sprawledout from its hub, Sinkfield's Tavern, because Sinkfield reduced hisguests to myopic drunkenness one evening, induced them to bringforward their maps and charts, lop off a little here, add a bit there,and adjust the center of the county to meet his requirements. Hesent them packing next day armed with their charts and five quartsof shinny in their saddlebags- two apiece and one for the Governor. ...
　　Because its primary reason for existence was government, Maycomb wasspared the grubbiness that distinguished most Alabama towns itssize. In the beginning its buildings were solid, its courthouse proud,its streets graciously wide. Maycomb's proportion of professionalpeople ran high: one went there to have his teeth pulled, his wagonfixed, his heart listened to, his money deposited, his soul saved, hismules vetted. But the ultimate wisdom of Sinkfield's maneuver isopen to question. He placed the young town too far away from theonly kind of public transportation in those days- river-boat- and ittook a man from the north end of the county two days to travel toMaycomb for store-bought goods. As a result the town remained the samesize for a hundred years, an island in a patchwork sea of cottonfieldsand timberland. ...
　　Although Maycomb was ignored during the War Between the States,Reconstruction rule and economic ruin forced the town to grow. It grewinward. New people so rarely settled there, the same familiesmarried the same families until the members of the community lookedfaintly alike. Occasionally someone would return from Montgomery orMobile with an outsider, but the result caused only a ripple in thequiet stream of family resemblance. Things were more or less thesame during my early years. ...
　　There was indeed a caste system in Maycomb, but to my mind it workedthis way: the older citizens, the present generation of people who hadlived side by side for years and years, were utterly predictable toone another: they took for granted attitudes, character shadings, evengestures, as having been repeated in each generation and refined bytime. Thus the dicta No Crawford Minds His Own Business, Every ThirdMerriweather Is Morbid, The Truth Is Not in the Delafields, All theBufords Walk Like That, were simply guides to daily living: never takea check from a Delafield without a discreet call to the bank; MissMaudie Atkinson's shoulder stoops because she was a Buford; if Mrs. ...
　　Grace Merriweather sips gin out of Lydia E. Pinkham bottles it'snothing unusual- her mother did the same. ...
　　Aunt Alexandra fitted into the world of Maycomb like a hand into aglove, but never into the world of Jem and me. I so often wondered howshe could be Atticus's and Uncle Jack's sister that I revivedhalf-remembered tales of changelings and mandrake roots that Jem hadspun long ago. ...
　　These were abstract speculations for the first month of her stay, asshe had little to say to Jem or me, and we saw her only at mealtimesand at night before we went to bed. It was summer and we wereoutdoors. Of course some afternoons when I would run inside for adrink of water, I would find the livingroom overrun with Maycombladies, sipping, whispering, fanning, and I would be called: "JeanLouise, come speak to these ladies."When I appeared in the doorway, Aunty would look as if she regrettedher request; I was usually mud-splashed or covered with sand. ...
　　"Speak to your Cousin Lily," she said one afternoon, when she hadtrapped me in the hall. ...
　　"Who?" I said. ...
　　"Your Cousin Lily Brooke," said Aunt Alexandra. ...
　　"She our cousin? I didn't know that."Aunt Alexandra managed to smile in a way that conveyed a gentleapology to Cousin Lily and firm disapproval to me. When Cousin LilyBrooke left I knew I was in for it. ...
　　It was a sad thing that my father had neglected to tell me about theFinch Family, or to install any pride into his children. Shesummoned Jem, who sat warily on the sofa beside me. She left theroom and returned with a purple-covered book on which Meditationsof Joshua S. St. Clair was stamped in gold. ...
　　"Your cousin wrote this," said Aunt Alexandra. "He was a beautifulcharacter."Jem examined the small volume. "Is this the Cousin Joshua who waslocked up for so long?"Aunt Alexandra said, "How did you know that?""Why, Atticus said he went round the bend at the University. Said hetried to shoot the president. Said Cousin Joshua said he wasn'tanything but a sewer-inspector and tried to shoot him with an oldflintlock pistol, only it just blew up in his hand. Atticus said itcost the family five hundred dollars to get him out of that one-"Aunt Alexandra was standing stiff as a stork. "That's all," shesaid. "We'll see about this."Before bedtime I was in Jem's room trying to borrow a book, whenAtticus knocked and entered. He sat on the side of Jem's bed, lookedat us soberly, then he grinned. ...
　　"Er- h'rm," he said. He was beginning to preface some things he saidwith a throaty noise, and I thought he must at last be getting old,but he looked the same. "I don't exactly know how to say this," hebegan. ...
　　"Well, just say it," said Jem. "Have we done something?"Our father was actually fidgeting. "No, I just want to explain toyou that- your Aunt Alexandra asked me… son, you know you're aFinch, don't you?""That's what I've been told." Jem looked out of the corners of hiseyes. His voice rose uncontrollably, "Atticus, what's the matter?"Atticus crossed his knees and folded his arms. "I'm trying to tellyou the facts of life."Jem's disgust deepened. "I know all that stuff," he said. ...
　　Atticus suddenly grew serious. In his lawyer's voice, without ashade of inflection, he said: "Your aunt has asked me to try andimpress upon you and Jean Louise that you are not from run-of-the-millpeople, that you are the product of several generations' gentlebreeding-" Atticus paused, watching me locate an elusive redbug onmy leg. ...
　　"Gentle breeding," he continued, when I had found and scratchedit, "and that you should try to live up to your name-" Atticuspersevered in spite of us: "She asked me to tell you you must try tobehave like the little lady and gentleman that you are. She wants totalk to you about the family and what it's meant to Maycomb Countythrough the years, so you'll have some idea of who you are, so youmight be moved to behave accordingly," he concluded at a gallop. ...
　　Stunned, Jem and I looked at each other, then at Atticus, whosecollar seemed to worry him. We did not speak to him. ...
　　Presently I picked up a comb from Jem's dresser and ran its teethalong the edge. ...
　　"Stop that noise," Atticus said. ...
　　His curtness stung me. The comb was midway in its journey, and Ibanged it down. For no reason I felt myself beginning to cry, but Icould not stop. This was not my father. My father never thoughtthese thoughts. My father never spoke so. Aunt Alexandra had put himup to this, somehow. Through my tears I saw Jem standing in asimilar pool of isolation, his head cocked to one side. ...
　　There was nowhere to go, but I turned to go and met Atticus's vestfront. I buried my head in it and listened to the small internalnoises that went on behind the light blue cloth: his watch ticking,the faint crackle of his starched shirt, the soft sound of hisbreathing. ...
　　"Your stomach's growling," I said. ...
　　"I know it," he said. ...
　　"You better take some soda.""I will," he said. ...
　　"Atticus, is all this behavin' an' stuff gonna make thingsdifferent? I mean are you-?"I felt his hand on the back of my head. "Don't you worry aboutanything," he said. "It's not time to worry."When I heard that, I knew he had come back to us. The blood in mylegs began to flow again, and I raised my head. "You really want us todo all that? I can't remember everything Finches are supposed todo…""I don't want you to remember it. Forget it."He went to the door and out of the room, shutting the door behindhim. He nearly slammed it, but caught himself at the last minute andclosed it softly. As Jem and I stared, the door opened again andAtticus peered around. His eyebrows were raised, his glasses hadslipped. "Get more like Cousin Joshua every day, don't I? Do you thinkI'll end up costing the family five hundred dollars?"I know now what he was trying to do, but Atticus was only a man. ...
　　It takes a woman to do that kind of work. ...
　　14Although we heard no more about the Finch family from AuntAlexandra, we heard plenty from the town. On Saturdays, armed with ournickels, when Jem permitted me to accompany him （he was now positivelyallergic to my presence when in public）， we would squirm our waythrough sweating sidewalk crowds and sometimes hear, "There's hischillun," or, "Yonder's some Finches." Turning to face our accusers,we would see only a couple of farmers studying the enema bags in theMayco Drugstore window. Or two dumpy countrywomen in straw hatssitting in a Hoover cart. ...
　　"They c'n go loose and rape up the countryside for all of 'em whorun this county care," was one obscure observation we met head on froma skinny gentleman when he passed us. Which reminded me that I had aquestion to ask Atticus. ...
　　"What's rape?" I asked him that night. ...
　　Atticus looked around from behind his paper. He was in his chairby the window. As we grew older, Jem and I thought it generous toallow Atticus thirty minutes to himself after supper. ...
　　He sighed, and said rape was carnal knowledge of a female by forceand without consent. ...
　　"Well if that's all it is why did Calpurnia dry me up when I askedher what it was?"Atticus looked pensive. "What's that again?""Well, I asked Calpurnia comin' from church that day what it was andshe said ask you but I forgot to and now I'm askin' you."His paper was now in his lap. "Again, please," he said. ...
　　I told him in detail about our trip to church with Calpurnia. ...
　　Atticus seemed to enjoy it, but Aunt Alexandra, who was sitting in acorner quietly sewing, put down her embroidery and stared at us. ...
　　"You all were coming back from Calpurnia's church that Sunday?"Jem said, "Yessum, she took us."I remembered something. "Yessum, and she promised me I could comeout to her house some afternoon. Atticus. I'll go next Sunday ifit's all right, can I? Cal said she'd come get me if you were off inthe car.""You may not."Aunt Alexandra said it. I wheeled around, startled, then turned backto Atticus in time to catch his swift glance at her, but it was toolate. I said, "I didn't ask you!"For a big man, Atticus could get up and down from a chair fasterthan anyone I ever knew. He was on his feet. "Apologize to your aunt,"he said. ...
　　"I didn't ask her, I asked you-"Atticus turned his head and pinned me to the wall with his good eye. ...
　　His voice was deadly: "First, apologize to your aunt.""I'm sorry, Aunty," I muttered. ...
　　"Now then," he said. "Let's get this clear: you do as Calpurniatells you, you do as I tell you, and as long as your aunt's in thishouse, you will do as she tells you. Understand?"I understood, pondered a while, and concluded that the only way Icould retire with a shred of dignity was to go to the bathroom,where I stayed long enough to make them think I had to go. ...
　　Returning, I lingered in the hall to hear a fierce discussion going onin the livingroom. Through the door I could see Jem on the sofa with afootball magazine in front of his face, his head turning as if itspages contained a live tennis match. ...
　　"…you've got to do something about her," Aunty was saying. "You'velet things go on too long, Atticus, too long.""I don't see any harm in letting her go out there. Cal'd lookafter her there as well as she does here."Who was the "her" they were talking about? My heart sank: me. I feltthe starched walls of a pink cotton penitentiary closing in on me, andfor the second time in my life I thought of running away. Immediately. ...
　　"Atticus, it's all right to be soft-hearted, you're an easy man, butyou have a daughter to think of. A daughter who's growing up.""That's what I am thinking of.""And don't try to get around it. You've got to face it sooner orlater and it might as well be tonight. We don't need her now."Atticus's voice was even: "Alexandra, Calpurnia's not leaving thishouse until she wants to. You may think otherwise, but I couldn't havegot along without her all these years. She's a faithful member of thisfamily and you'll simply have to accept things the way they are. ...
　　Besides, sister, I don't want you working your head off for us- you'veno reason to do that. We still need Cal as much as we ever did.""But Atticus-""Besides, I don't think the children've suffered one bit from herhaving brought them up. If anything, she's been harder on them in someways than a mother would have been… she's never let them get awaywith anything, she's never indulged them the way most colored nursesdo. She tried to bring them up according to her lights, and Cal'slights are pretty good- and another thing, the children love her."I breathed again. It wasn't me, it was only Calpurnia they weretalking about. Revived, I entered the livingroom. Atticus hadretreated behind his newspaper and Aunt Alexandra was worrying herembroidery. Punk, punk, punk, her needle broke the taut circle. Shestopped, and pulled the cloth tighter: punk-punk-punk. She wasfurious. ...
　　Jem got up and padded across the rug. He motioned me to follow. Heled me to his room and closed the door. His face was grave.
杰姆站起身，轻手轻脚地走过地毯。他示意我跟上。他把我带到他的房间，关上了门。他的脸色阴沉。
　　"They've been fussing, Scout."Jem and I fussed a great deal these days, but I had never heard ofor seen anyone quarrel with Atticus. It was not a comfortable sight.
“他们吵得不可开交，斯库特。”杰姆和我最近吵得不可开交，但我从未听说或见过有人和阿蒂克斯吵架。那场面真让人不舒服。
　　"Scout, try not to antagonize Aunty, hear?"Atticus's remarks were still rankling, which made me miss therequest in Jem's question. My feathers rose again. "You tryin' to tellme what to do?""Naw, it's- he's got a lot on his mind now, without us worryinghim.""Like what?" Atticus didn't appear to have anything especially onhis mind.
“斯库特，别惹阿姨，听见了吗？”阿蒂克斯的话仍然让我很恼火，这让我没听清杰姆的问题里究竟在说什么。我又勃然大怒。“你是想告诉我该怎么办？”“不，是——他现在有很多事要操心，不用我们操心。”“比如什么？”阿蒂克斯看起来并没有什么特别的心事。
　　"It's this Tom Robinson case that's worryin' him to death-"I said Atticus didn't worry about anything. Besides, the casenever bothered us except about once a week and then it didn't last.
“就是汤姆·鲁宾逊的案子让他烦死了——”我说阿蒂克斯什么都不用担心。再说，这案子除了每周一次，而且通常不会持续太久，从来没给我们带来什么麻烦。
　　"That's because you can't hold something in your mind but a littlewhile," said Jem. "It's different with grown folks, we-"His maddening superiority was unbearable these days. He didn'twant to do anything but read and go off by himself. Still,everything he read he passed along to me, but with this difference:
“那是因为你脑子里只能记住一件事，一时半会儿也记不住，”杰姆说。“成年人就不一样了，我们……”他现在那种令人抓狂的优越感真是让人受不了。他什么都不想做，只想一个人看书，然后就走。不过，他读到的所有书他都传给我，不过有一点不同：
　　formerly, because he thought I'd like it; now, for my edificationand instruction.
以前，因为他认为我会喜欢它；现在，是为了对我进行启迪和指导。
　　"Jee crawling hova, Jem! Who do you think you are?""Now I mean it, Scout, you antagonize Aunty and I'll- I'll spankyou."With that, I was gone. "You damn morphodite, I'll kill you!" Hewas sitting on the bed, and it was easy to grab his front hair andland one on his mouth. He slapped me and I tried another left, but apunch in the stomach sent me sprawling on the floor. It nearly knockedthe breath out of me, but it didn't matter because I knew he wasfighting, he was fighting me back. We were still equals.
“杰姆，你这个混蛋！你以为你是谁？”“斯库特，我可不是开玩笑，你敢惹阿姨，我就——我要揍你。”说完，我就走了。“你这个该死的变态，我要杀了你！”他坐在床上，很容易就能抓住他额头上的头发，狠狠地打在他嘴上。他打了我一巴掌，我又使出一记左拳，但肚子上挨了一拳，我摔倒在地。这一拳差点让我喘不过气来，但这没关系，因为我知道他在打我，他在反击我。我们仍然是平等的。
　　"Ain't so high and mighty now, are you!" I screamed, sailing inagain. He was still on the bed and I couldn't get a firm stance, soI threw myself at him as hard as I could, hitting, pulling,pinching, gouging. What had begun as a fist-fight became a brawl. Wewere still struggling when Atticus separated us.
“现在你不是那么嚣张跋扈吗？”我尖叫着，再次冲了上去。他还在床上，我站不稳，就用尽全力扑向他，又打又拽，又掐又抠。一开始只是打架，后来变成了一场斗殴。我们还在扭打，阿蒂克斯就把我们拉开了。
　　"That's all," he said. "Both of you go to bed right now.""Taah!" I said at Jem. He was being sent to bed at my bedtime.
“就这样吧，”他说，“你们俩现在就去睡觉。”“啊！”我对杰姆说。他和我一样，也该上床睡觉了。
　　"Who started it?" asked Atticus, in resignation.
“是谁先开始的？”阿蒂克斯无奈地问道。
　　"Jem did. He was tryin' to tell me what to do. I don't have tomind him now, do I?"Atticus smiled. "Let's leave it at this: you mind Jem whenever hecan make you. Fair enough?"Aunt Alexandra was present but silent, and when she went down thehall with Atticus we heard her say, "…just one of the things I'vebeen telling you about," a phrase that united us again.
“杰姆说的。他想告诉我该怎么做。我现在不用管他了，对吧？”阿蒂克斯笑了笑。“就这样吧：杰姆什么时候让你管，你就什么时候管。这样可以吗？”亚历山德拉姑妈也在场，但没说话。当她和阿蒂克斯一起走到走廊时，我们听到她说：“……这只是我一直跟你说的其中一件事。”这句话让我们再次团结起来。
　　Ours were adjoining rooms; as I shut the door between them Jem said,"Night, Scout.""Night," I murmured, picking my way across the room to turn on thelight. As I passed the bed I stepped on something warm, resilient, andrather smooth. It was not quite like hard rubber, and I had thesensation that it was alive. I also heard it move.
我们的房间相邻；我关上门时，杰姆说：“晚安，斯库特。” “晚安，”我低声说着，小心翼翼地穿过房间去开灯。经过床边时，我踩到了一个温暖、有弹性、相当光滑的东西。它不像硬橡胶，我感觉它像是活的。我还听到了它动静。
　　I switched on the light and looked at the floor by the bed. WhateverI had stepped on was gone. I tapped on Jem's door.
我打开灯，看了看床边的地板。我踩到的东西都不见了。我敲了敲杰姆的门。
　　"What," he said. ...
　　"How does a snake feel?""Sort of rough. Cold. Dusty. Why?""I think there's one under my bed. Can you come look?""Are you bein' funny?" Jem opened the door. He was in his pajamabottoms. I noticed not without satisfaction that the mark of myknuckles was still on his mouth. When he saw I meant what I said, hesaid, "If you think I'm gonna put my face down to a snake you've gotanother think comin'. Hold on a minute."He went to the kitchen and fetched the broom. "You better get upon the bed," he said.
“蛇是什么感觉？”“有点粗糙。冷。满是灰尘。怎么了？”“我觉得我的床底下有一条。你能过来看看吗？”“你在开玩笑吗？”杰姆开了门。他穿着睡裤。我满意地注意到，我的指关节印还留在他的嘴上。当他看出我是认真的，便说道：“如果你以为我会把脸贴在蛇身上，那你可要倒霉了。等一下。”他去厨房拿了扫帚。“你最好爬到床上去，”他说。
　　"You reckon it's really one?" I asked. This was an occasion. Ourhouses had no cellars; they were built on stone blocks a few feetabove the ground, and the entry of reptiles was not unknown but wasnot commonplace. Miss Rachel Haverford's excuse for a glass of neatwhiskey every morning was that she never got over the fright offinding a rattler coiled in her bedroom closet, on her washing, whenshe went to hang up her negligee.
“你觉得真的是响尾蛇吗？”我问。这可是偶然。我们家的房子没有地窖，都是建在离地面几英尺高的石块上，爬行动物的入侵并非闻所未闻，但也并不常见。雷切尔·哈弗福德小姐每天早上喝一杯纯威士忌的借口是，每次去晾睡衣时，都会在卧室壁橱里发现一条盘绕在洗好的衣服上的响尾蛇，这让她一直无法忘怀。
　　Jem made a tentative swipe under the bed. I looked over the footto see if a snake would come out. None did. Jem made a deeper swipe.
杰姆试探性地往床底下猛戳了一下。我从床尾往上看，看看会不会有蛇爬出来。什么也没找到。杰姆又猛戳了一下。
　　"Do snakes grunt?""It ain't a snake," Jem said. "It's somebody."Suddenly a filthy brown package shot from under the bed. Jemraised the broom and missed Dill's head by an inch when it appeared.
“蛇会咕噜咕噜地叫吗？”“那不是蛇，”杰姆说，“是什么东西。”突然，一个脏兮兮的棕色包裹从床底下钻了出来。杰姆举起扫帚，差一点就砸到迪尔的头了。
　　"God Almighty." Jem's voice was reverent.
“全能的上帝。”杰姆的声音充满虔诚。
　　We watched Dill emerge by degrees. He was a tight fit. He stood upand eased his shoulders, turned his feet in their ankle sockets,rubbed the back of his neck. His circulation restored, he said, "Hey."Jem petitioned God again. I was speechless.
我们看着迪尔渐渐浮出水面。他身子紧绷绷的。他站起身，舒展肩膀，转动着脚踝窝，揉了揉后颈。血液循环恢复了，他说：“嘿。”杰姆又向上帝祈祷。我哑口无言。
　　"I'm 'bout to perish," said Dill. "Got anything to eat?"In a dream, I went to the kitchen. I brought him back some milkand half a pan of corn bread left over from supper. Dill devouredit, chewing with his front teeth, as was his custom.
“我快要死了，”迪尔说。“有吃的吗？”梦里，我去了厨房。我给他带回了些牛奶和晚饭剩下的半盘玉米面包。迪尔狼吞虎咽地吃着，像往常一样用门牙咀嚼着。
　　I finally found my voice. "How'd you get here?"By an involved route. Refreshed by food, Dill recited thisnarrative: having been bound in chains and left to die in the basement（there were basements in Meridian） by his new father, who dislikedhim, and secretly kept alive on raw field peas by a passing farmer whoheard his cries for help （the good man poked a bushel pod by podthrough the ventilator）， Dill worked himself free by pulling thechains from the wall. Still in wrist manacles, he wandered two milesout of Meridian where he discovered a small animal show and wasimmediately engaged to wash the camel. He traveled with the show allover Mississippi until his infallible sense of direction told him hewas in Abbott County, Alabama, just across the river from Maycomb.
我终于开口说话了。“你是怎么到这里来的？”他绕了个弯路。吃饱喝足后，迪尔开始讲述他的故事：他被讨厌他的新爸爸用铁链锁在地下室（默里迪恩有地下室）里等死。一个路过的农民听到他的求救声，偷偷地用生豌豆维持生命（这位好心人把一蒲式耳的豌豆荚一个接一个地从通风口戳了进去）。迪尔从墙上扯下铁链，才挣脱了束缚。他戴着手铐，走出默里迪恩两英里，在那里发现了一个小型动物表演，并立即被安排去清洗骆驼。他跟着表演者走遍了密西西比州，直到他那精准的方向感告诉他，他已经到了阿拉巴马州的阿博特县，就在梅科姆河对岸。
　　He walked the rest of the way.
他步行走完了剩下的路程。
　　"How'd you get here?" asked Jem.
“你怎么到这里来的？”杰姆问。
　　He had taken thirteen dollars from his mother's purse, caught thenine o'clock from Meridian and got off at Maycomb Junction. He hadwalked ten or eleven of the fourteen miles to Maycomb, off the highwayin the scrub bushes lest the authorities be seeking him, and hadridden the remainder of the way clinging to the backboard of acotton wagon. He had been under the bed for two hours, he thought;he had heard us in the diningroom, and the clink of forks on platesnearly drove him crazy. He thought Jem and I would never go to bed; hehad considered emerging and helping me beat Jem, as Jem had grownfar taller, but he knew Mr. Finch would break it up soon, so hethought it best to stay where he was. He was worn out, dirty beyondbelief, and home.
他从母亲的钱包里掏了十三美元，搭上九点钟从子午线到梅科姆枢纽站的车。十四英里的路程，他走了十到十一英里到梅科姆，为了躲避当局的追捕，他离开了公路，钻进了灌木丛。剩下的路程，他紧紧抓住一辆运棉车的背板，骑着马走完了。他想，自己在床底下躲了两个小时；他听到了我们在餐厅里的声音，叉子敲击盘子的叮当声差点把他逼疯。他以为我和杰姆永远也睡不着了；他考虑过爬出来帮我打杰姆，因为杰姆长高了很多，但他知道芬奇先生很快就会阻止他，所以他觉得最好还是待在原地。他筋疲力尽，浑身脏得难以置信，而且已经回到了家。
　　"They must not know you're here," said Jem. "We'd know if theywere lookin' for you…""Think they're still searchin' all the picture shows in Meridian."Dill grinned.
“他们肯定不知道你在这里，”杰姆说。“如果他们在找你，我们会知道的……”“我想他们还在搜查默里迪恩所有的电影院呢。”迪尔咧嘴一笑。
　　"You oughta let your mother know where you are," said Jem. "Yououghta let her know you're here…"Dill's eyes flickered at Jem, and Jem looked at the floor. Then herose and broke the remaining code of our childhood. He went out of theroom and down the hall. "Atticus," his voice was distant, "can youcome here a minute, sir?"Beneath its sweat-streaked dirt Dill's face went white. I felt sick.
“你应该让你妈妈知道你在哪儿，”杰姆说。“你应该让她知道你在这里……”迪尔的眼神闪过杰姆，杰姆则看着地板。然后他站了起来，打破了我们童年时代残留的暗号。他走出房间，沿着走廊走去。“阿蒂克斯，”他的声音很冷漠，“先生，你能过来一下吗？”迪尔汗涔涔的脸色变得苍白。我感到一阵恶心。
　　Atticus was in the doorway. ...
　　He came to the middle of the room and stood with his hands in hispockets, looking down at Dill.
他走到房间中央，双手插在口袋里，低头看着迪尔。
　　I finally found my voice: "It's okay, Dill. When he wants you toknow somethin', he tells you."Dill looked at me. "I mean it's all right," I said. "You know hewouldn't bother you, you know you ain't scared of Atticus.""I'm not scared…" Dill muttered.
我终于开口：“没事的，迪尔。他想让你知道什么事，就会告诉你。”迪尔看着我。“我是说没事的，”我说。“你知道他不会来烦你，你知道你不怕阿蒂克斯。”“我不怕……”迪尔嘟囔道。
　　"Just hungry, I'll bet." Atticus's voice had its usual pleasantdryness. "Scout, we can do better than a pan of cold corn bread, can'twe? You fill this fellow up and when I get back we'll see what wecan see.""Mr. Finch, don't tell Aunt Rachel, don't make me go back,please sir! I'll run off again-!""Whoa, son," said Atticus. "Nobody's about to make you go anywherebut to bed pretty soon. I'm just going over to tell Miss Rachel you'rehere and ask her if you could spend the night with us- you'd likethat, wouldn't you? And for goodness' sake put some of the county backwhere it belongs, the soil erosion's bad enough as it is."Dill stared at my father's retreating figure.
“我敢打赌，只是饿了。”阿蒂克斯的声音一如既往地愉快而干涩。“斯库特，我们能做的比一盘冷玉米面包更好，不是吗？你把这家伙装满，等我回来，我们再看看能不能看到什么。”“芬奇先生，别告诉雷切尔姑妈，别让我回去，求求你了先生！我还要跑——！”“哎呀，儿子，”阿蒂克斯说。“没人会逼你去别的地方，你很快就得去睡觉了。我只是想去告诉雷切尔小姐你来了，问问她能不能和我们一起过夜——你肯定喜欢，对吧？还有，看在上帝的份上，把县里的东西恢复原状吧，土壤侵蚀已经够严重的了。”迪尔盯着我父亲远去的背影。
　　"He's tryin' to be funny," I said. "He means take a bath. See there,I told you he wouldn't bother you."Jem was standing in a corner of the room, looking like the traitorhe was. "Dill, I had to tell him," he said. "You can't run threehundred miles off without your mother knowin'."We left him without a word.
“他想开玩笑，”我说。“他是指洗澡。你看，我告诉过你，他不会打扰你。”杰姆站在房间角落里，一副叛徒的模样。“迪尔，我得告诉他，”他说。“你总不能跑三百英里还不让你妈知道吧。”我们一言不发地离开了他。
　　Dill ate, and ate, and ate. He hadn't eaten since last night. Heused all his money for a ticket, boarded the train as he had done manytimes, coolly chatted with the conductor, to whom Dill was afamiliar sight, but he had not the nerve to invoke the rule on smallchildren traveling a distance alone if you've lost your money theconductor will lend you enough for dinner and your father will pay himback at the end of the line.
迪尔吃了又吃。他从昨晚就没吃过东西。他用所有的钱买了一张票，像往常一样上了火车，冷冷地和列车员聊了聊。列车员对迪尔很熟悉，但他没胆量援引小孩独自长途旅行的规定——如果你丢了钱，列车员会借给你足够的晚餐，你爸爸会在终点站还给他。
　　Dill made his way through the leftovers and was reaching for a canof pork and beans in the pantry when Miss Rachel's Do-oo Je-sus wentoff in the hall. He shivered like a rabbit.
迪尔吃着剩菜，正要去食品柜拿一罐猪肉豆子，这时雷切尔小姐的“耶稣啊”在走廊里响了。他浑身发抖，像只兔子。
　　He bore with fortitude her Wait Till I Get You Home, Your FolksAre Out of Their Minds Worryin', was quite calm during That's Allthe Harris in You Coming Out, smiled at her Reckon You Can Stay OneNight, and returned the hug at long last bestowed upon him.
他坚强地忍受了她所说的“等我送你回家”，“你的家人都担心疯了”，在哈里斯说出“这就是你出柜的全部”时保持镇定，对她说“我觉得你可以留下一晚”时微笑，并最终回抱了她。
　　Atticus pushed up his glasses and rubbed his face.
阿蒂克斯推了推眼镜，揉了揉脸。
　　"Your father's tired," said Aunt Alexandra, her first words inhours, it seemed. She had been there, but I suppose struck dumb mostof the time. "You children get to bed now."We left them in the diningroom, Atticus still mopping his face.
“你们爸爸累了，”亚历山德拉姑妈说道，这似乎是她几个小时以来说的第一句话。她之前也在场，但我想大部分时间都呆住了。“孩子们，现在去睡觉吧。”我们把他们留在餐厅里，阿蒂克斯还在擦脸。
　　"From rape to riot to runaways," we heard him chuckle. "I wonderwhat the next two hours will bring."Since things appeared to have worked out pretty well, Dill and Idecided to be civil to Jem. Besides, Dill had to sleep with him sowe might as well speak to him.
“从强奸到暴乱，再到逃亡，”我们听到他轻笑一声。“真想知道接下来的两个小时会发生什么。”既然事情进展得还不错，我和迪尔决定对杰姆客气一点。再说，迪尔得和他一起睡，所以我们不妨跟他谈谈。
　　I put on my pajamas, read for a while and found myself suddenlyunable to keep my eyes open. Dill and Jem were quiet; when I turnedoff my reading lamp there was no strip of light under the door toJem's room.
我穿上睡衣，看了一会儿书，突然发现自己睁不开眼睛了。迪尔和杰姆都很安静；我关掉阅读灯，杰姆房间的门缝里已经没有一丝光亮了。
　　I must have slept a long time, for when I was punched awake the roomwas dim with the light of the setting moon.
我一定睡了很长时间，因为当我被打醒时，房间里因落月的光线而变得昏暗。
　　"Move over, Scout.""He thought he had to," I mumbled. "Don't stay mad with him."Dill got in bed beside me. "I ain't," he said. "I just wanted tosleep with you. Are you waked up?"By this time I was, but lazily so. "Why'd you do it?"No answer. "I said why'd you run off? Was he really hateful like yousaid?""Naw…""Didn't you all build that boat like you wrote you were gonna?""He just said we would. We never did."I raised up on my elbow, facing Dill's outline. "It's no reason torun off. They don't get around to doin' what they say they're gonna dohalf the time…""That wasn't it, he- they just wasn't interested in me."This was the weirdest reason for flight I had ever heard. "Howcome?""Well, they stayed gone all the time, and when they were home, even,they'd get off in a room by themselves.""What'd they do in there?""Nothin', just sittin' and readin'- but they didn't want me with'em."I pushed the pillow to the headboard and sat up. "You knowsomething? I was fixin' to run off tonight because there they allwere. You don't want 'em around you all the time, Dill-"Dill breathed his patient breath, a half-sigh.
“斯库特，让开。”“他以为他必须让开，”我咕哝道。“别一直生他的气。”迪尔在我身边躺下。“我没有，”他说。“我只是想和你一起睡。你醒了吗？”这时我醒了，但睡得懒懒的。“你为什么要这么做？”没有人回答。“我说你为什么要逃跑？他真的像你说的那样可恶吗？”“没有……”“你们不是都按照你们写的造船计划造了吗？”“他只是说我们会造。我们根本没造。”我用胳膊肘撑起身子，面对着迪尔的身影。“没理由逃跑。他们有一半时间都没时间履行他们说要做的事……”“不是那样的，他——他们只是对我没兴趣。”这是我听过的最奇怪的逃跑理由。 “怎么回事？”“嗯，他们一直不在家，即使回家了，也会自己躲进一个房间。”“他们在里面干什么？”“没干什么，就是坐着看书——但他们不想让我和他们在一起。”我把枕头推到床头板上，坐了起来。“你知道吗？我今晚就打算跑了，因为他们都在那儿。你不会想让他们一直待在你身边的，迪尔——”迪尔耐心地喘了口气，轻轻叹了口气。
　　"-good night, Atticus's gone all day and sometimes half the nightand off in the legislature and I don't know what- you don't want 'emaround all the time, Dill, you couldn't do anything if they were.""That's not it."As Dill explained, I found myself wondering what life would be ifJem were different, even from what he was now; what I would do ifAtticus did not feel the necessity of my presence, help and advice.
“——晚安，阿蒂克斯整天都不在家，有时甚至半夜都不在家，还在立法机关里，我不知道——你也不希望他们一直在你身边，迪尔，如果他们一直在你身边，你什么也做不了。”“不是这样的。”迪尔解释道，我发现自己开始想，如果杰姆和现在不一样，生活会是什么样子；如果阿蒂克斯觉得不需要我的陪伴、帮助和建议，我该怎么办。
　　Why, he couldn't get along a day without me. Even Calpurnia couldn'tget along unless I was there. They needed me.
哎，他一天都离不开我。就连卡尔普尼亚，如果没有我在，也活不下去。他们需要我。
　　"Dill, you ain't telling me right- your folks couldn't do withoutyou. They must be just mean to you. Tell you what to do about that-"Dill's voice went on steadily in the darkness: "The thing is, whatI'm tryin' to say is- they do get on a lot better without me, Ican't help them any. They ain't mean. They buy me everything I want,but it's now-you've-got-it-go-play-with-it. You've got a roomful ofthings. I-got-you-that-book-so-go-read-it." Dill tried to deepen hisvoice. "You're not a boy. Boys get out and play baseball with otherboys, they don't hang around the house worryin' their folks."Dill's voice was his own again: "Oh, they ain't mean. They kissyou and hug you good night and good mornin' and good-bye and tellyou they love you- Scout, let's get us a baby.""Where?"There was a man Dill had heard of who had a boat that he rowedacross to a foggy island where all these babies were; you couldorder one-"That's a lie. Aunty said God drops 'em down the chimney. At leastthat's what I think she said." For once, Aunty's diction had notbeen too clear.
“迪尔，你说得不对——你父母没有你就活不下去。他们肯定对你不好。告诉你该怎么办——”迪尔的声音在黑暗中稳定地继续说道：“问题是，我想说的是——没有我，他们确实过得好多了，我帮不了他们。他们不是坏人。我想要什么他们就给我买什么，但现在是‘你有了，去玩吧。你有一屋子的东西。‘我给你那本书，你去读吧。’”迪尔努力压低声音。 “你不是男孩。男孩们出去和别的男孩打棒球，才不会待在家里让父母担心呢。”迪尔又用他自己的声音说道：“哦，他们不坏。他们会亲吻你，拥抱你，跟你说晚安、早安和再见，还会告诉你他们爱你——斯库特，我们生个孩子吧。”“去哪儿？”迪尔听说过一个男人，他有一条船，可以划到雾蒙蒙的岛上，那里全是婴儿；你可以订一个——“那是谎话。姑姑说是上帝把他们从烟囱里扔下去的。至少我认为她是这么说的。”姑姑的措辞这一次不太清楚。
　　"Well that ain't so. You get babies from each other. But there'sthis man, too- he has all these babies just waitin' to wake up, hebreathes life into 'em…"Dill was off again. Beautiful things floated around in his dreamyhead. He could read two books to my one, but he preferred the magic ofhis own inventions. He could add and subtract faster than lightning,but he preferred his own twilight world, a world where babies slept,waiting to be gathered like morning lilies. He was slowly talkinghimself to sleep and taking me with him, but in the quietness of hisfoggy island there rose the faded image of a gray house with sad browndoors.
“其实不然。你们彼此都有孩子。但还有这个男人——他有这么多孩子，只等着醒来，他给他们注入生命……”迪尔又说开了。美好的事物在他如梦似幻的脑海里飘荡。他能读两本书，我读一本，但他更喜欢自己发明的魔力。他能比闪电还快地进行加减运算，但他更喜欢自己那朦胧的世界，一个婴儿们沉睡的世界，像晨钟花一样等待被抱起。他慢慢地哄着自己入睡，并带着我一起睡，但在他那雾蒙蒙的小岛的宁静中，却浮现出一栋灰色房子的褪色身影，房子的门是忧郁的棕色。
　　"Dill?""Mm?""Why do you reckon Boo Radley's never run off?"Dill sighed a long sigh and turned away from me.
“迪尔？”“嗯？”“你为什么认为布·拉德利从来就没有逃跑过？”迪尔长长地叹了口气，转过身去。
　　"Maybe he doesn't have anywhere to run off to…"15After many telephone calls, much pleading on behalf of thedefendant, and a long forgiving letter from his mother, it was decidedthat Dill could stay. We had a week of peace together. After that,little, it seemed. A nightmare was upon us.
“也许他没地方可逃……”15经过多次电话沟通，被告多次恳求，以及他母亲一封长长的表示宽恕的信，最终决定让迪尔留下来。我们一起度过了一周的平静时光。之后，似乎就没那么平静了。一场噩梦降临到我们头上。
　　It began one evening after supper. Dill was over; Aunt Alexandra wasin her chair in the corner, Atticus was in his; Jem and I were onthe floor reading. It had been a placid week: I had minded Aunty;Jem had outgrown the treehouse, but helped Dill and me construct a newrope ladder for it; Dill had hit upon a foolproof plan to make BooRadley come out at no cost to ourselves （place a trail of lemondrops from the back door to the front yard and he'd follow it, like anant）。 There was a knock on the front door, Jem answered it and said itwas Mr. Heck Tate.
事情发生在一天晚饭后。迪尔过来了；亚历山德拉姑妈坐在角落里的椅子上，阿蒂克斯也坐在他的椅子上；我和杰姆坐在地板上看书。那是一个平静的星期：我照顾着姑妈；杰姆已经长大了，树屋已经住不下了，但他帮我和迪尔搭了个新的绳梯；迪尔想出了一个万无一失的办法，可以让布·拉德利免费出来（从后门到前院撒一串柠檬糖，他就会像蚂蚁一样跟着走）。前门传来敲门声，杰姆开门说是赫克·泰特先生。
　　"Well, ask him to come in," said Atticus.
“好吧，请他进来，”阿蒂克斯说。
　　"I already did. There's some men outside in the yard, they wantyou to come out."In Maycomb, grown men stood outside in the front yard for only tworeasons: death and politics. I wondered who had died. Jem and I wentto the front door, but Atticus called, "Go back in the house."Jem turned out the livingroom lights and pressed his nose to awindow screen. Aunt Alexandra protested. "Just for a second, Aunty,let's see who it is," he said.
“我已经说了。外面院子里有几个人，他们要你出来。”在梅科姆，成年男子站在前院只有两个原因：死亡和政治。我心想，究竟是谁死了。我和杰姆走到前门，阿蒂克斯却喊道：“回屋里去。”杰姆关掉客厅的灯，把鼻子贴在纱窗上。亚历山德拉姑妈抗议道：“姑妈，等一下，我们看看是谁。”他说。
　　Dill and I took another window. A crowd of men was standing aroundAtticus. They all seemed to be talking at once.
迪尔和我坐在另一个窗户边。一群人围着阿蒂克斯站着。他们好像都在同时说话。
　　"…movin' him to the county jail tomorrow," Mr. Tate was saying, "Idon't look for any trouble, but I can't guarantee there won't beany…""Don't be foolish, Heck," Atticus said. "This is Maycomb.""…said I was just uneasy.""Heck, we've gotten one postponement of this case just to makesure there's nothing to be uneasy about. This is Saturday," Atticussaid. "Trial'll probably be Monday. You can keep him one night,can't you? I don't think anybody in Maycomb'll begrudge me a client,with times this hard."There was a murmur of glee that died suddenly when Mr. Link Deassaid, "Nobody around here's up to anything, it's that Old Sarumbunch I'm worried about… can't you get a- what is it, Heck?""Change of venue," said Mr. Tate. "Not much point in that, now isit?"Atticus said something inaudible. I turned to Jem, who waved me tosilence.
“……明天把他送到县监狱去，”泰特先生说，“我不想惹麻烦，但我不敢保证不会有……”“别傻了，赫克，”阿蒂克斯说。“这里是梅科姆。”“……说我只是有点不安。”“赫克，我们把这个案子延期了一次，就是为了确保没有什么可不安的。今天是星期六，”阿蒂克斯说。“审判可能在星期一。你能让他留一晚，对吧？我想在梅科姆，在这种艰难的时期，应该没人会嫌弃我的客户吧。”一阵窃窃私语突然戛然而止，林克·迪阿斯先生说道：“这附近没人有什么事，我担心的是那个老萨伦邦……你能不能——什么事，赫克？”“换个地点，”泰特先生说。 “那没什么意义，不是吗？”阿蒂克斯不知怎么地说了些什么。我转向杰姆，他示意我安静。
　　"-besides," Atticus was saying, "you're not scared of that crowd,are you?""…know how they do when they get shinnied up.""They don't usually drink on Sunday, they go to church most of theday…" Atticus said.
“——再说，”阿蒂克斯说，“你不怕那群人，是吗？”“……知道他们喝醉后会怎么样。”“他们星期天通常不喝酒，他们一天中的大部分时间都去教堂……”阿蒂克斯说。
　　"This is a special occasion, though…" someone said.
“不过，这是一个特殊的场合……”有人说道。
　　They murmured and buzzed until Aunty said if Jem didn't turn onthe livingroom lights he would disgrace the family. Jem didn't hearher.
他们低声嗡嗡地叫着，直到姑姑说如果杰姆不开客厅的灯，他会给家里丢脸。杰姆没听见。
　　"-don't see why you touched it in the first place," Mr. Link Deaswas saying. "You've got everything to lose from this, Atticus. Imean everything.""Do you really think so?"This was Atticus's dangerous question. "Do you really think you wantto move there, Scout?" Bam, bam, bam, and the checkerboard was sweptclean of my men. "Do you really think that, son? Then read this."Jem would struggle the rest of an evening through the speeches ofHenry W. Grady.
“——我不明白你一开始为什么要碰它，”林克·迪斯先生说。“阿蒂克斯，你会失去一切的。我是说一切。”“你真的这么想吗？”这是阿蒂克斯的危险问题。“你真的想搬到那里去吗，斯库特？”砰，砰，砰，棋盘上我的手下全都消失了。“你真的这么想吗，儿子？那就读读这个吧。”杰姆会用剩下的时间苦读亨利·W·格雷迪的演讲。
　　"Link, that boy might go to the chair, but he's not going till thetruth's told." Atticus's voice was even. "And you know what thetruth is."There was a murmur among the group of men, made more ominous whenAtticus moved back to the bottom front step and the men drew nearer tohim.
“林克，那小子或许会去坐椅子，但他不会走，除非真相大白。”阿蒂克斯的声音平静下来。“而且你知道真相是什么。”人群中传来一阵低语，阿蒂克斯走回最底层的台阶，那些人也向他靠近，这低语声变得更加不祥。
　　Suddenly Jem screamed, "Atticus, the telephone's ringing!"The men jumped a little and scattered; they were people we saw everyday: merchants, in-town farmers; Dr. Reynolds was there; so was Mr.
突然，杰姆尖叫起来：“阿蒂克斯，电话铃响了！”那些人吓了一跳，四散奔逃；他们是我们每天都会看到的人：商人、镇上的农民；雷诺兹医生在那儿；还有雷诺兹先生。
　　Avery. ...
　　"Well, answer it, son," called Atticus.
“好吧，儿子，回答我的问题。”阿蒂克斯喊道。
　　Laughter broke them up. When Atticus switched on the overheadlight in the livingroom he found Jem at the window, pale except forthe vivid mark of the screen on his nose.
一阵笑声打断了他们。阿蒂克斯打开客厅的顶灯，发现杰姆站在窗边，脸色苍白，只有鼻子上纱窗留下的痕迹清晰可见。
　　"Why on earth are you all sitting in the dark?" he asked.
“你们为什么都坐在黑暗里？”他问道。
　　Jem watched him go to his chair and pick up the evening paper. Isometimes think Atticus subjected every crisis of his life to tranquilevaluation behind The Mobile Register, The Birmingham News andThe Montgomery Advertiser.
杰姆看着他走到椅子旁，拿起晚报。我有时会想，阿蒂克斯把人生中每一次危机都放在《流动登记报》、《伯明翰新闻报》和《蒙哥马利广告报》的背后，静静地审视着。
　　"They were after you, weren't they?" Jem went to him. "They wantedto get you, didn't they?"Atticus lowered the paper and gazed at Jem. "What have you beenreading?" he asked. Then he said gently, "No son, those were ourfriends.""It wasn't a- a gang?" Jem was looking from the corners of his eyes.
“他们在追你，对吧？”杰姆走到他面前。“他们想抓你，对吧？”阿蒂克斯放下报纸，盯着杰姆。“你一直在读什么？”他问。然后他温和地说：“不，儿子，那些是我们的朋友。”“那不是一伙——一伙的吗？”杰姆用眼角余光看着他。
　　Atticus tried to stifle a smile but didn't make it. "No, we don'thave mobs and that nonsense in Maycomb. I've never heard of a gangin Maycomb.""Ku Klux got after some Catholics one time.""Never heard of any Catholics in Maycomb either," said Atticus,"you're confusing that with something else. Way back aboutnineteen-twenty there was a Klan, but it was a politicalorganization more than anything. Besides, they couldn't find anybodyto scare. They paraded by Mr. Sam Levy's house one night, but Sam juststood on his porch and told 'em things had come to a pretty pass, he'dsold 'em the very sheets on their backs. Sam made 'em so ashamed ofthemselves they went away."The Levy family met all criteria for being Fine Folks: they didthe best they could with the sense they had, and they had beenliving on the same plot of ground in Maycomb for five generations.
阿蒂克斯试图抑制住笑容，但没能做到。 “不，梅科姆没有暴徒之类的胡闹。我从来没听说过梅科姆有什么帮派。”“三 K 党曾经攻击过一些天主教徒。”“我也从来没听说过梅科姆有天主教徒，”阿蒂克斯说，“你把这跟别的东西搞混了。早在 1920 年左右，就有三 K 党，但它首先是个政治组织。再说，他们也找不到人吓唬他们。一天晚上，他们游街示众，路过萨姆·利维先生家，可萨姆只是站在门廊上，告诉他们事情已经闹得不可开交了，他把他们身上的床单都卖给他们了。萨姆把他们羞得屁滚尿流，他们才走开。”利维家族符合“好人”的所有标准：他们尽其所能，而且他们在梅科姆的同一块地上生活了五代。
　　"The Ku Klux's gone," said Atticus. "It'll never come back."I walked home with Dill and returned in time to overhear Atticussaying to Aunty, "…in favor of Southern womanhood as much asanybody, but not for preserving polite fiction at the expense of humanlife," a pronouncement that made me suspect they had been fussingagain.
“三 K 党已经走了，”阿蒂克斯说，“它永远不会回来了。”我和迪尔一起走回家，回来的时候正好听到阿蒂克斯对姑姑说：“……我和其他人一样支持南方女性，但不能为了维护文雅的虚构而牺牲人的生命。”这句话让我怀疑他们又在吵架了。
　　I sought Jem and found him in his room, on the bed deep inthought. "Have they been at it?" I asked.
我找到杰姆，发现他在房间里，躺在床上陷入沉思。“他们动手了吗？”我问。
　　"Sort of. She won't let him alone about Tom Robinson. She almostsaid Atticus was disgracin' the family. Scout… I'm scared.""Scared'a what?""Scared about Atticus. Somebody might hurt him." Jem preferred toremain mysterious; all he would say to my questions was go on andleave him alone.
“算是吧。她不肯放过他汤姆·鲁宾逊的事。她差点就说阿蒂克斯玷污了家族的名誉。斯库特……我害怕。”“害怕什么？”“害怕阿蒂克斯。可能会有人伤害他。”杰姆喜欢保持神秘；对我的问题，他只会说，继续说下去，别管他。
　　Next day was Sunday. In the interval between Sunday School andChurch when the congregation stretched its legs, I saw Atticusstanding in the yard with another knot of men. Mr. Heck Tate waspresent, and I wondered if he had seen the light. He never went tochurch. Even Mr. Underwood was there. Mr. Underwood had no use for anyorganization but The Maycomb Tribune, of which he was the soleowner, editor, and printer. His days were spent at his linotype, wherehe refreshed himself occasionally from an ever-present gallon jug ofcherry wine. He rarely gathered news; people brought it to him. It wassaid that he made up every edition of The Maycomb Tribune out of hisown head and wrote it down on the linotype. This was believable.
第二天是星期天。在主日学校和教堂礼拜之间的空隙，信众们伸伸懒腰，我看到阿蒂克斯和另一群人站在院子里。赫克·泰特先生也在场，我心想他是不是醒悟了。他从不去教堂。就连安德伍德先生也在。安德伍德先生除了《梅科姆论坛报》之外，对其他任何机构都不感兴趣，他是这家报社的唯一所有人、编辑和印刷商。他整天待在他的排字机旁，偶尔会用随身携带的一加仑樱桃酒壶提提神。他很少收集新闻；是别人带给他的。据说，每一版《梅科姆论坛报》都是他凭空想象，然后写在排字机上。这倒是可信的。
　　Something must have been up to haul Mr. Underwood out.
肯定有什么事情要把安德伍德先生拖出来。
　　I caught Atticus coming in the door, and he said that they'd movedTom Robinson to the Maycomb jail. He also said, more to himself thanto me, that if they'd kept him there in the first place there wouldn'thave been any fuss. I watched him take his seat on the third rowfrom the front, and I heard him rumble, "Nearer my God to thee,"some notes behind the rest of us. He never sat with Aunty, Jem and me.
我碰见阿蒂克斯进门，他说他们把汤姆·罗宾逊转移到了梅科姆监狱。他还说，与其说是跟我，不如说是自言自语，如果他们一开始就把他关在那里，就不会有什么大惊小怪了。我看着他在前排第三排坐下，听到他在我们身后低声哼唱着“更接近我的上帝”之类的歌。他从来没和姑姑、杰姆和我坐在一起过。
　　He liked to be by himself in church.
他喜欢独自一人待在教堂里。
　　The fake peace that prevailed on Sundays was made more irritating byAunt Alexandra's presence. Atticus would flee to his office directlyafter dinner, where if we sometimes looked in on him, we would findhim sitting back in his swivel chair reading. Aunt Alexandracomposed herself for a two-hour nap and dared us to make any noisein the yard, the neighborhood was resting. Jem in his old age hadtaken to his room with a stack of football magazines. So Dill and Ispent our Sundays creeping around in Deer's Pasture.
亚历山德拉姑妈的出现让周日弥漫的虚假宁静更加令人恼火。晚饭后，阿蒂克斯会直接躲进他的办公室，如果我们偶尔去看看，就会发现他正坐在转椅上看书。亚历山德拉姑妈会安心地睡上两个小时，还挑衅我们在院子里制造任何噪音，因为邻居们都在休息。年迈的杰姆带着一堆足球杂志躲进了自己的房间。于是，迪尔和我每周日都在鹿牧场里偷偷摸摸地度过。
　　Shooting on Sundays was prohibited, so Dill and I kicked Jem'sfootball around the pasture for a while, which was no fun. Dillasked if I'd like to have a poke at Boo Radley. I said I didn'tthink it'd be nice to bother him, and spent the rest of theafternoon filling Dill in on last winter's events. He was considerablyimpressed.
星期天禁止打猎，所以我和迪尔在牧场上踢了一会儿杰姆的足球，可一点也不好玩。迪尔问我要不要去戳一下布·拉德利。我说我觉得不方便打扰他，然后花了整个下午的时间跟迪尔讲去年冬天发生的事情。他印象相当深刻。
　　We parted at suppertime, and after our meal Jem and I weresettling down to a routine evening, when Atticus did something thatinterested us: he came into the livingroom carrying a longelectrical extension cord. There was a light bulb on the end.
晚饭时我们分别了。饭后，我和杰姆正准备开始例行的夜晚活动，这时阿蒂克斯做了一件让我们感兴趣的事：他拿着一根长长的电线走进客厅，电线末端有个灯泡。
　　"I'm going out for a while," he said. "You folks'll be in bed when Icome back, so I'll say good night now."With that, he put his hat on and went out the back door.
“我要出去一会儿，”他说，“我回来的时候你们都睡了，所以我现在就说晚安了。”说完，他戴上帽子，从后门出去了。
　　"He's takin' the car," said Jem. ...
　　Our father had a few peculiarities: one was, he never atedesserts; another was that he liked to walk. As far back as I couldremember, there was always a Chevrolet in excellent condition in thecarhouse, and Atticus put many miles on it in business trips, but inMaycomb he walked to and from his office four times a day, coveringabout two miles. He said his only exercise was walking. In Maycomb, ifone went for a walk with no definite purpose in mind, it was correctto believe one's mind incapable of definite purpose.
我们的父亲有几个怪癖：一是他从不吃甜点；二是他喜欢散步。我记得，车库里总是停着一辆状况极佳的雪佛兰，阿蒂克斯出差时开着它跑了好多英里。但在梅科姆，他每天步行往返办公室四次，大约走两英里。他说他唯一的运动就是散步。在梅科姆，如果一个人出去散步时没有明确的目标，那么“一个人的大脑无法确定明确的目标”这种说法是正确的。
　　Later on, I bade my aunt and brother good night and was well intoa book when I heard Jem rattling around in his room. His go-to-bednoises were so familiar to me that I knocked on his door: "Why ain'tyou going to bed?""I'm goin' downtown for a while." He was changing his pants.
后来，我跟姑姑和哥哥道了晚安，正看得津津有味的时候，听到杰姆在房间里发出一阵阵的响声。他睡觉的声音我太熟悉了，于是我敲了敲他的门：“你怎么还不睡觉？”“我要去城里一会儿。”他正在换裤子。
　　"Why? It's almost ten o'clock, Jem."He knew it, but he was going anyway.
“怎么？快十点了，杰姆。”他知道这一点，但他还是要走。
　　"Then I'm goin' with you. If you say no you're not, I'm goin'
“那我就跟你一起去。如果你不同意，那我就跟你一起去。”
　　anyway, hear?"Jem saw that he would have to fight me to keep me home, and Isuppose he thought a fight would antagonize Aunty, so he gave inwith little grace.
无论如何，听到了吗？”杰姆看到他必须和我打架才能让我留在家里，我想他认为打架会激怒阿姨，所以他毫不留情地屈服了。
　　I dressed quickly. We waited until Aunty's light went out, and wewalked quietly down the back steps. There was no moon tonight.
我迅速穿好衣服。等到阿姨的灯灭了，我们才悄悄地走下后门台阶。今晚没有月亮。
　　"Dill'll wanta come," I whispered. ...
　　"So he will," said Jem gloomily. ...
　　We leaped over the driveway wall, cut through Miss Rachel's sideyard and went to Dill's window. Jem whistled bob-white. Dill's faceappeared at the screen, disappeared, and five minutes later heunhooked the screen and crawled out. An old campaigner, he did notspeak until we were on the sidewalk. "What's up?""Jem's got the look-arounds," an affliction Calpurnia said allboys caught at his age.
我们跳过车道的墙，穿过雷切尔小姐家的侧院，来到迪尔家的窗前。杰姆吹了声口哨，吹着鲍勃白鼬的叫声。迪尔的脸在纱窗前出现，又消失了，五分钟后，他解开纱窗，爬了出来。他是个老战友，直到我们走到人行道上才开口说话。“怎么了？”“杰姆总是东张西望，”卡尔珀尼亚说，所有像他这个年纪的男孩都会有这种毛病。
　　"I've just got this feeling," Jem said, "just this feeling."We went by Mrs. Dubose's house, standing empty and shuttered, hercamellias grown up in weeds and johnson grass. There were eight morehouses to the post office corner.
“我就是有这种感觉，”杰姆说，“就是有这种感觉。”我们经过杜博斯太太的房子，房子空荡荡的，百叶窗紧闭，山茶花在杂草和约翰逊草丛中生长。到邮局街角还有八栋房子。
　　The south side of the square was deserted. Giant monkey-puzzlebushes bristled on each corner, and between them an iron hitching railglistened under the street lights. A light shone in the county toilet,otherwise that side of the courthouse was dark. A larger square ofstores surrounded the courthouse square; dim lights burned from deepwithin them.
广场南侧空无一人。高大的灌木丛在每个角落里竖立着，灌木丛之间，一根铁制的拴马杆在路灯下闪闪发光。县厕所里亮着灯，除此之外，法院那边一片漆黑。法院广场周围环绕着一大片商店，昏暗的灯光从商店深处透出。
　　Atticus's office was in the courthouse when he began his lawpractice, but after several years of it he moved to quieter quartersin the Maycomb Bank building. When we rounded the corner of thesquare, we saw the car parked in front of the bank. "He's in there,"said Jem.
阿蒂克斯刚开始从事法律工作时，他的办公室就在法院里，但几年后，他搬到了梅科姆银行大楼里更安静的地方。我们绕过广场拐角，看到那辆车停在银行门口。“他在里面，”杰姆说。
　　But he wasn't. His office was reached by a long hallway. Lookingdown the hall, we should have seen Atticus Finch, Attorney-at-Law insmall sober letters against the light from behind his door. It wasdark.
但他不是。他的办公室要经过一条长长的走廊。顺着走廊望下去，在门后的灯光下，我们本应能看到用小巧朴素的字母写着“阿蒂克斯·芬奇，律师”的字样。屋里一片漆黑。
　　Jem peered in the bank door to make sure. He turned the knob. Thedoor was locked. "Let's go up the street. Maybe he's visitin' Mr.
杰姆朝银行门里看了看，想确认一下。他转动了门把手。门锁上了。“我们沿着街走吧。也许他去拜访那位先生了。”
　　Underwood."Mr. Underwood not only ran The Maycomb Tribune office, he lived init. That is, above it. He covered the courthouse and jailhouse newssimply by looking out his upstairs window. The office building wason the northwest corner of the square, and to reach it we had topass the jail.
安德伍德。“安德伍德先生不仅经营着《梅科姆论坛报》的办公室，他还住在里面。确切地说，就在楼上。他只需透过楼上的窗户就能报道法院和监狱的新闻。办公楼位于广场的西北角，要到达那里，我们必须经过监狱。”
　　The Maycomb jail was the most venerable and hideous of thecounty's buildings. Atticus said it was like something Cousin JoshuaSt. Clair might have designed. It was certainly someone's dream.
梅科姆监狱是县里最古老、最丑陋的建筑。阿蒂克斯说它就像约书亚·圣克莱尔表哥设计的东西。这肯定是某个人的梦想。
　　Starkly out of place in a town of square-faced stores and steep-roofedhouses, the Maycomb jail was a miniature Gothic joke one cell wide andtwo cells high, complete with tiny battlements and flyingbuttresses. Its fantasy was heightened by its red brick facade and thethick steel bars at its ecclesiastical windows. It stood on nolonely hill, but was wedged between Tyndal's Hardware Store and TheMaycomb Tribune office. The jail was Maycomb's only conversationpiece: its detractors said it looked like a Victorian privy; itssupporters said it gave the town a good solid respectable look, and nostranger would ever suspect that it was full of niggers.
梅科姆监狱与这座遍布方形店铺和陡峭屋顶房屋的小镇格格不入，它就像一个微型哥特式建筑的笑柄，宽一间牢房，高两间牢房，配有小型城垛和飞扶壁。红砖外墙和教堂式窗户上的粗钢筋更增添了它的奇幻色彩。它矗立在一座孤零零的山丘上，夹在廷德尔五金店和梅科姆论坛报社之间。这座监狱是梅科姆唯一的谈资：批评者说它看起来像维多利亚时代的厕所；支持者说它让小镇看起来坚固又体面，而且外来者永远不会怀疑里面关押着黑鬼。
　　As we walked up the sidewalk, we saw a solitary light burning in thedistance. "That's funny," said Jem, "jail doesn't have an outsidelight.""Looks like it's over the door," said Dill.
我们沿着人行道走着，看到远处有一盏孤零零的灯。“真奇怪，”杰姆说，“监狱里居然没有外灯。”“好像在门那边，”迪尔说。
　　A long extension cord ran between the bars of a second-floorwindow and down the side of the building. In the light from its barebulb, Atticus was sitting propped against the front door. He wassitting in one of his office chairs, and he was reading, obliviousof the nightbugs dancing over his head.
一根长长的电线从二楼窗户的栏杆间穿过，一直延伸到大楼的侧面。在裸露灯泡的灯光下，阿蒂克斯倚着前门坐着。他坐在办公椅上，正在看书，丝毫没有注意到头顶上飞舞的夜虫。
　　I made to run, but Jem caught me. "Don't go to him," he said, "hemight not like it. He's all right, let's go home. I just wanted to seewhere he was."We were taking a short cut across the square when four dusty carscame in from the Meridian highway, moving slowly in a line. Theywent around the square, passed the bank building, and stopped in frontof the jail.
我正想跑，但杰姆一把抓住了我。“别去找他，”他说，“他可能会不高兴。他没事，我们回家吧。我只是想看看他在哪儿。”我们正抄近路穿过广场，四辆满是灰尘的汽车从子午线公路开过来，排成一列，缓缓行驶。它们绕过广场，经过银行大楼，停在监狱门前。
　　Nobody got out. We saw Atticus look up from his newspaper. He closedit, folded it deliberately, dropped it in his lap, and pushed hishat to the back of his head. He seemed to be expecting them.
没人下车。我们看到阿蒂克斯从报纸上抬起头来。他合上报纸，小心翼翼地折好，扔在腿上，把帽子推到脑后。他似乎在等着他们。
　　"Come on," whispered Jem. We streaked across the square, acrossthe street, until we were in the shelter of the Jitney Jungle door.
“走吧，”杰姆低声说。我们飞奔过广场，穿过街道，来到“吉特尼丛林”的门口。
　　Jem peeked up the sidewalk. "We can get closer," he said. We ran toTyndal's Hardware door- near enough, at the same time discreet.
杰姆从人行道上往上探了探。“我们可以靠近一点，”他说。我们跑到廷德尔五金店门口——够近了，但又不失谨慎。
　　In ones and twos, men got out of the cars. Shadows becamesubstance as lights revealed solid shapes moving toward the jail door.
三个人三三两两地从车里走出来。灯光照亮了那些朝着监狱门口移动的实体，阴影渐渐显现。
　　Atticus remained where he was. The men hid him from view.
阿蒂克斯仍旧待在原地。那些人把他藏了起来。
　　"He in there, Mr. Finch?" a man said.
“他在里面吗，芬奇先生？”一个男人问道。
　　"He is," we heard Atticus answer, "and he's asleep. Don't wake himup."In obedience to my father, there followed what I later realizedwas a sickeningly comic aspect of an unfunny situation: the men talkedin near-whispers.
“他在，”我们听到阿蒂克斯回答，“他睡着了。别叫醒他。”听从父亲的话，接下来发生了一件我后来意识到并不好笑的事情中令人作呕的滑稽场面：这两个人几乎是低声耳语地交谈着。
　　"You know what we want," another man said. "Get aside from the door,Mr. Finch.""You can turn around and go home again, Walter," Atticus saidpleasantly. "Heck Tate's around somewhere.""The hell he is," said another man. "Heck's bunch's so deep in thewoods they won't get out till mornin'.""Indeed? Why so?""Called 'em off on a snipe hunt," was the succinct answer. "Didn'tyou think a'that, Mr. Finch?""Thought about it, but didn't believe it. Well then," my father'svoice was still the same, "that changes things, doesn't it?""It do," another deep voice said. Its owner was a shadow.
“你知道我们要什么，”另一个人说。“芬奇先生，别挡着门。”“沃尔特，你可以掉头回家了，”阿蒂克斯和蔼地说。“赫克·泰特就在附近。”“他肯定在那儿，”另一个人说。“赫克那帮人藏在森林深处，不到早上都出不来。”“真的吗？为什么？”“叫他们出去猎鹬了，”他简洁地回答。“芬奇先生，你难道没想过吗？”“想过，但不敢相信。那么，”我父亲的声音依然如故，“这改变了一切，不是吗？”“确实如此，”另一个低沉的声音说道。这声音的主人是一个影子。
　　"Do you really think so?"This was the second time I heard Atticus ask that question in twodays, and it meant somebody's man would get jumped. This was toogood to miss. I broke away from Jem and ran as fast as I could toAtticus.
“你真的这么想吗？”两天来，我第二次听到阿蒂克斯问这个问题，这意味着有人要被袭击了。这可真是个好兆头，不容错过。我挣脱杰姆，飞快地跑向阿蒂克斯。
　　Jem shrieked and tried to catch me, but I had a lead on him andDill. I pushed my way through dark smelly bodies and burst into thecircle of light.
杰姆尖叫着想抓住我，但我领先他和迪尔。我挤过那些黑乎乎、散发着恶臭的人群，冲进了光圈。
　　"H-ey, Atticus!"I thought he would have a fine surprise, but his face killed my joy.
“嘿，阿蒂克斯！”我以为他会感到非常惊喜，但他的表情却让我高兴不起来。
　　A flash of plain fear was going out of his eyes, but returned whenDill and Jem wriggled into the light.
一丝明显的恐惧从他眼中消失了，但当迪尔和杰姆挤进灯光下时，恐惧又回来了。
　　There was a smell of stale whiskey and pigpen about, and when Iglanced around I discovered that these men were strangers. They werenot the people I saw last night. Hot embarrassment shot through me:
周围弥漫着一股陈年威士忌和猪圈的味道，我环顾四周，发现这些人都是陌生人。他们不是我昨晚见到的那几个人。一阵阵尴尬袭上心头：
　　I had leaped triumphantly into a ring of people I had never seenbefore.
我得意洋洋地跳进了一群我从未见过的人群中。
　　Atticus got up from his chair, but he was moving slowly, like an oldman. He put the newspaper down very carefully, adjusting its creaseswith lingering fingers. They were trembling a little.
阿蒂克斯从椅子上站了起来，但动作很慢，像个老人。他小心翼翼地放下报纸，用迟疑的手指抚平折痕。他的手指微微颤抖着。
　　"Go home, Jem," he said. "Take Scout and Dill home."We were accustomed to prompt, if not always cheerful acquiescence toAtticus's instructions, but from the way he stood Jem was not thinkingof budging.
“回家吧，杰姆，”他说，“带斯库特和迪尔回家。”我们习惯于迅速地，即使并不总是愉快地遵从阿蒂克斯的指示，但从杰姆站着的样子来看，他根本不想让步。
　　"Go home, I said."Jem shook his head. As Atticus's fists went to his hips, so didJem's, and as they faced each other I could see little resemblancebetween them: Jem's soft brown hair and eyes, his oval face andsnug-fitting ears were our mother's, contrasting oddly withAtticus's graying black hair and square-cut features, but they weresomehow alike. Mutual defiance made them alike.
“回家吧，”我说。杰姆摇了摇头。阿蒂克斯的拳头捶胸顿足，杰姆也捶胸顿足。两人面对面时，我看不出他们之间有什么相似之处：杰姆柔软的棕色头发和眼睛，椭圆形的脸庞和贴合的耳朵，都像我们的母亲，与阿蒂克斯灰白的黑发和方脸形成了奇怪的对比，但他们之间却又有些相似。互相的反抗让他们如此相似。
　　"Son, I said go home."Jem shook his head.
“儿子，我说回家。”杰姆摇了摇头。
　　"I'll send him home," a burly man said, and grabbed Jem roughly bythe collar. He yanked Jem nearly off his feet.
“我要送他回家。”一个魁梧的男人说道，粗暴地抓住杰姆的衣领，几乎把他拽倒在地。
　　"Don't you touch him!" I kicked the man swiftly. Barefooted, I wassurprised to see him fall back in real pain. I intended to kick hisshin, but aimed too high.
“别碰他！”我猛地踢了那人一脚。赤脚的我惊讶地看到他痛苦地倒了下去。我本想踢他的小腿，但踢得太高了。
　　"That'll do, Scout." Atticus put his hand on my shoulder. "Don'tkick folks. No-" he said, as I was pleading justification.
“够了，斯库特。”阿蒂克斯把手放在我的肩膀上。“别踢人。不——”他说道，因为我正恳求他开脱。
　　"Ain't nobody gonna do Jem that way," I said. ...
　　"All right, Mr. Finch, get 'em outa here," someone growled. "You gotfifteen seconds to get 'em outa here."In the midst of this strange assembly, Atticus stood trying tomake Jem mind him. "I ain't going," was his steady answer to Atticus'sthreats, requests, and finally, "Please Jem, take them home."I was getting a bit tired of that, but felt Jem had his ownreasons for doing as he did, in view of his prospects once Atticus didget him home. I looked around the crowd. It was a summer's night,but the men were dressed, most of them, in overalls and denim shirtsbuttoned up to the collars. I thought they must be cold-natured, astheir sleeves were unrolled and buttoned at the cuffs. Some worehats pulled firmly down over their ears. They were sullen-looking,sleepy-eyed men who seemed unused to late hours. I sought once morefor a familiar face, and at the center of the semi-circle I found one.
“好了，芬奇先生，把他们弄出去，”有人咆哮道。“你只有十五秒的时间把他们弄出去。”在这奇怪的人群中，阿蒂克斯站在那里，试图让杰姆听从他。“我不去，”他坚定地回答着阿蒂克斯的威胁、请求，最后是“杰姆，求你了，送他们回家吧。”我听得有点烦了，但我觉得杰姆这么做自有他的理由，毕竟阿蒂克斯把他送回家后，他的前途一片光明。我环顾人群。这是一个夏夜，但这些人大多穿着工装裤和牛仔衬衫，扣子一直扣到领口。我想他们一定是怕冷，因为他们的袖子都卷了起来，袖口扣得紧紧的。有些人戴着帽子，紧紧地盖住了耳朵。他们面色阴沉，睡眼惺忪，似乎不习惯熬夜。我再次寻找熟悉的面孔，在半圆的中心我找到了一张。
　　"Hey, Mr. Cunningham."The man did not hear me, it seemed.
“嘿，坎宁安先生。”那人似乎没有听见我的话。
　　"Hey, Mr. Cunningham. How's your entailment gettin' along?"Mr. Walter Cunningham's legal affairs were well known to me; Atticushad once described them at length. The big man blinked and hookedhis thumbs in his overall straps. He seemed uncomfortable; hecleared his throat and looked away. My friendly overture had fallenflat.
“嗨，坎宁安先生。你的限定继承权办理得怎么样了？”沃尔特·坎宁安先生的法律事务我非常了解；阿蒂库什曾经详细地描述过。这位大个子眨了眨眼，拇指勾在工装裤带里。他似乎有些不自在；他清了清嗓子，把目光移开了。我的友好示好彻底失败了。
　　Mr. Cunningham wore no hat, and the top half of his forehead waswhite in contrast to his sunscorched face, which led me to believethat he wore one most days. He shifted his feet, clad in heavy workshoes.
坎宁安先生没戴帽子，他的额头上半部分白皙，与他晒得黝黑的脸形成鲜明对比，这让我相信他大部分时间都戴着帽子。他穿着厚重的工作鞋，不停地挪动着双脚。
　　"Don't you remember me, Mr. Cunningham? I'm Jean Louise Finch. Youbrought us some hickory nuts one time, remember?" I began to sense thefutility one feels when unacknowledged by a chance acquaintance.
“坎宁安先生，您不记得我了吗？我是琼·路易丝·芬奇。您曾经给我们带过一些山核桃，记得吗？”我开始体会到，当一个偶然认识的人不理睬我时，那种无助感油然而生。
　　"I go to school with Walter," I began again. "He's your boy, ain'the? Ain't he, sir?"Mr. Cunningham was moved to a faint nod. He did know me, after all.
“我和沃尔特一起上学，”我又开口道。“他是你儿子，对吧？先生，对吧？”坎宁安先生感动地轻轻点了点头。毕竟，他认识我。
　　"He's in my grade," I said, "and he does right well. He's a goodboy," I added, "a real nice boy. We brought him home for dinner onetime. Maybe he told you about me, I beat him up one time but he wasreal nice about it. Tell him hey for me, won't you?"Atticus had said it was the polite thing to talk to people aboutwhat they were interested in, not about what you were interested in.
“他和我同年级，”我说，“而且他表现很好。他是个好孩子，”我补充道，“一个非常好的孩子。我们曾经带他回家吃饭。也许他跟你说过我，我打过他一次，但他表现得很好。替我跟他打个招呼，好吗？”阿蒂克斯说过，礼貌的做法是和别人谈论他们感兴趣的事情，而不是你感兴趣的事情。
　　Mr. Cunningham displayed no interest in his son, so I tackled hisentailment once more in a last-ditch effort to make him feel at home.
坎宁安先生对他的儿子毫无兴趣，因此我再次处理他的继承问题，作为最后的努力，让他有宾至如归的感觉。
　　"Entailments are bad," I was advising him, when I slowly awoke tothe fact that I was addressing the entire aggregation. The men wereall looking at me, some had their mouths half-open. Atticus hadstopped poking at Jem: they were standing together beside Dill.
“限定继承权不好，”我正劝他，这时我才慢慢意识到自己是在对着所有人讲话。男人们都看着我，有些人的嘴巴都张大了。阿蒂克斯不再戳杰姆了：他们一起站在迪尔旁边。
　　Their attention amounted to fascination. Atticus's mouth, even, washalf-open, an attitude he had once described as uncouth. Our eyesmet and he shut it.
他们的注意力几乎被迷住了。阿蒂克斯的嘴巴甚至都半张着，他曾经形容这种姿势很粗鲁。我们的目光相遇，他便闭上了嘴。
　　"Well, Atticus, I was just sayin' to Mr. Cunningham that entailmentsare bad an' all that, but you said not to worry, it takes a longtime sometimes… that you all'd ride it out together…" I was slowlydrying up, wondering what idiocy I had committed. Entailments seemedall right enough for livingroom talk.
“嗯，阿蒂克斯，我刚才还跟坎宁安先生说，继承权之类的不好，可你说过别担心，有时候要花很长时间……你们会一起渡过难关的……”我慢慢地没了话，心想自己到底犯了什么蠢事。继承权似乎很适合在客厅里聊。
　　I began to feel sweat gathering at the edges of my hair; I couldstand anything but a bunch of people looking at me. They were quitestill.
我开始感到汗水在头发边缘聚集；除了一群人看着我之外，我什么都受不了。他们一动不动。
　　"What's the matter?" I asked.
“怎么了？”我问。
　　Atticus said nothing. I looked around and up at Mr. Cunningham,whose face was equally impassive. Then he did a peculiar thing. Hesquatted down and took me by both shoulders.
阿蒂克斯什么也没说。我环顾四周，抬头看着坎宁安先生，他的脸上同样毫无表情。然后他做了一件奇怪的事。他蹲下来，抓住我的双肩。
　　"I'll tell him you said hey, little lady," he said. ...
　　Then he straightened up and waved a big paw. "Let's clear out," hecalled. "Let's get going, boys."As they had come, in ones and twos the men shuffled back to theirramshackle cars. Doors slammed, engines coughed, and they were gone.
然后他直起身子，挥舞着一只大爪子。“我们走吧，”他喊道。“走吧，伙计们。”他们来了之后，三三两两地拖着脚步回到他们那辆破旧的车里。车门砰地关上，引擎轰鸣，他们开走了。
　　I turned to Atticus, but Atticus had gone to the jail and wasleaning against it with his face to the wall. I went to him and pulledhis sleeve. "Can we go home now?" He nodded, produced hishandkerchief, gave his face a going-over and blew his nose violently.
我转身看向阿蒂克斯，但他已经去了牢房，脸朝墙，斜倚在墙上。我走到他身边，拉了拉他的袖子。“我们现在可以回家了吗？”他点点头，掏出手帕，仔细地检查了一下自己的脸，然后使劲地擤了擤鼻子。
　　"Mr. Finch?"A soft husky voice came from the darkness above: "They gone?"Atticus stepped back and looked up. "They've gone," he said. "Getsome sleep, Tom. They won't bother you any more."From a different direction, another voice cut crisply through thenight: "You're damn tootin' they won't. Had you covered all thetime, Atticus."Mr. Underwood and a double-barreled shotgun were leaning out hiswindow above The Maycomb Tribune office.
“芬奇先生？”一个沙哑的声音从楼上的黑暗中传来：“他们走了？”阿蒂克斯后退一步，抬起头。“他们走了，”他说。“汤姆，睡会儿觉。他们不会再来烦你了。”从另一个方向，另一个清脆的声音划破夜空：“你他妈的吹牛，他们不会的。你一直有人掩护，阿蒂克斯。”安德伍德先生正把一把双管猎枪探出《梅科姆论坛报》办公室楼上的窗户。
　　It was long past my bedtime and I was growing quite tired; it seemedthat Atticus and Mr. Underwood would talk for the rest of the night,Mr. Underwood out the window and Atticus up at him. Finally Atticusreturned, switched off the light above the jail door, and picked uphis chair.
早已过了睡觉时间，我感到疲惫不堪；看来阿蒂克斯和安德伍德先生会聊上一整晚，安德伍德先生在窗外，阿蒂克斯则抬头看着他。最后，阿蒂克斯回来了，关掉监狱门上的灯，拿起他的椅子。
　　"Can I carry it for you, Mr. Finch?" asked Dill. He had not said aword the whole time.
“芬奇先生，我可以帮您拿吗？”迪尔问。他自始至终一句话也没说。
　　"Why, thank you, son."Walking toward the office, Dill and I fell into step behindAtticus and Jem. Dill was encumbered by the chair, and his pace wasslower. Atticus and Jem were well ahead of us, and I assumed thatAtticus was giving him hell for not going home, but I was wrong. Asthey passed under a streetlight, Atticus reached out and massagedJem's hair, his one gesture of affection.
“谢谢你，儿子。”我和迪尔朝办公室走去，跟在阿蒂克斯和杰姆身后。迪尔被椅子绊住了，脚步慢了下来。阿蒂克斯和杰姆远远地走在我们前面，我以为阿蒂克斯在责骂他不回家，但我错了。他们从路灯下走过时，阿蒂克斯伸出手，揉了揉杰姆的头发，这是他唯一表达爱意的举动。
　　16Jem heard me. He thrust his head around the connecting door. As hecame to my bed Atticus's light flashed on. We stayed where we wereuntil it went off; we heard him turn over, and we waited until hewas still again.
16杰姆听到了我的动静。他把头探进连接门。他走到我床边时，阿蒂克斯的灯亮了。我们待在原地，直到灯灭了；我们听到他翻了个身，等他再次安静下来。
　　Jem took me to his room and put me in bed beside him. "Try to goto sleep," he said, "It'll be all over after tomorrow, maybe."We had come in quietly, so as not to wake Aunty. Atticus killedthe engine in the driveway and coasted to the carhouse; we went in theback door and to our rooms without a word. I was very tired, and wasdrifting into sleep when the memory of Atticus calmly folding hisnewspaper and pushing back his hat became Atticus standing in themiddle of an empty waiting street, pushing up his glasses. The fullmeaning of the night's events hit me and I began crying. Jem wasawfully nice about it: for once he didn't remind me that people nearlynine years old didn't do things like that.
杰姆把我带到他的房间，放在他身旁的床上。“尽量睡着，”他说，“也许明天过后就没事了。”我们进来的时候很轻，以免吵醒姑姑。阿蒂克斯在车道上关掉引擎，滑行到车库；我们一言不发地从后门进了房间。我非常疲惫，正要入睡时，阿蒂克斯平静地叠好报纸，把帽子往后推的记忆，变成了阿蒂克斯站在一条空荡荡的等候街道中央，推着眼镜。我突然明白了那天晚上发生的一切，哭了起来。杰姆对此非常友善：他这次没有提醒我，快九岁的孩子不会做这种事。
　　Everybody's appetite was delicate this morning, except Jem's: he atehis way through three eggs. Atticus watched in frank admiration;Aunt Alexandra sipped coffee and radiated waves of disapproval.
今天早上，除了杰姆，大家胃口都不太好：他一口气吃了三个鸡蛋。阿蒂克斯看着，脸上露出了毫不掩饰的钦佩之色；亚历山德拉姑妈则小口喝着咖啡，脸上流露出一丝不赞同的神情。
　　Children who slipped out at night were a disgrace to the family.
晚上偷偷溜出去的孩子是家里的耻辱。
　　Atticus said he was right glad his disgraces had come along, but Auntysaid, "Nonsense, Mr. Underwood was there all the time.""You know, it's a funny thing about Braxton," said Atticus. "Hedespises Negroes, won't have one near him."Local opinion held Mr. Underwood to be an intense, profane littleman, whose father in a fey fit of humor christened Braxton Bragg, aname Mr. Underwood had done his best to live down. Atticus said namingpeople after Confederate generals made slow steady drinkers.
阿蒂克斯说他很高兴自己丢脸的事儿来了，但姑妈却说：“胡说，安德伍德先生一直都在那儿呢。”“你知道，布拉克斯顿有点奇怪，”阿蒂克斯说。“他鄙视黑人，不会让黑人靠近他。”当地人认为安德伍德先生是个脾气暴躁、粗俗的小个子，他父亲一时兴起给他取名为布拉克斯顿·布拉格，而安德伍德先生一直努力让自己忘掉这个名字。阿蒂克斯说，用南方邦联将军的名字给别人命名，会让酒量变大，喝得慢条斯理。
　　Calpurnia was serving Aunt Alexandra more coffee, and she shookher head at what I thought was a pleading winning look. "You'restill too little," she said. "I'll tell you when you ain't." I said itmight help my stomach. "All right," she said, and got a cup from thesideboard. She poured one tablespoonful of coffee into it and filledthe cup to the brim with milk. I thanked her by sticking out my tongueat it, and looked up to catch Aunty's warning frown. But she wasfrowning at Atticus.
卡尔珀尼亚又给亚历山德拉姑妈倒了些咖啡，她摇了摇头，我以为她那眼神是恳求和讨好的。“你还太小了，”她说。“等你长大了再告诉你。”我说这话或许能帮我治治胃。“好吧，”她说着，从餐具柜里拿了个杯子。她倒了一汤匙咖啡进去，又往杯子里倒满牛奶。我吐了吐舌头以示感谢，抬头看到姑妈警告性的皱眉。但她皱眉的却是阿蒂克斯。
　　She waited until Calpurnia was in the kitchen, then she said, "Don'ttalk like that in front of them.""Talk like what in front of whom?" he asked.
她一直等到卡尔普尼亚进了厨房，然后说道：“别在他们面前那样说话。”“在谁面前那样说话？”他问。
　　"Like that in front of Calpurnia. You said Braxton Underwooddespises Negroes right in front of her.""Well, I'm sure Cal knows it. Everybody in Maycomb knows it."I was beginning to notice a subtle change in my father these days,that came out when he talked with Aunt Alexandra. It was a quietdigging in, never outright irritation. There was a faint starchinessin his voice when he said, "Anything fit to say at the table's fitto say in front of Calpurnia. She knows what she means to thisfamily.""I don't think it's a good habit, Atticus. It encourages them. Youknow how they talk among themselves. Every thing that happens inthis town's out to the Quarters before sundown."My father put down his knife. "I don't know of any law that saysthey can't talk. Maybe if we didn't give them so much to talk aboutthey'd be quiet. Why don't you drink your coffee, Scout?"I was playing in it with the spoon. "I thought Mr. Cunningham wasa friend of ours. You told me a long time ago he was.""He still is.""But last night he wanted to hurt you."Atticus placed his fork beside his knife and pushed his plate aside.
“就像在卡尔珀尼亚面前那样。你当着她的面说布拉克斯顿·安德伍德鄙视黑人。”“嗯，我肯定卡尔知道。梅科姆的每个人都知道。”这些天，我开始注意到父亲身上一种微妙的变化，这种变化在他和亚历山德拉姑妈谈话时显露出来。他只是默默地保持沉默，从未表现出明显的恼怒。他说：“任何适合在餐桌上说的话，在卡尔珀尼亚面前也适合说。她知道自己对这个家意味着什么。”时，他的声音里略带一丝刻板。“我觉得这不是个好习惯，阿蒂克斯。这会助长他们的这种行为。你知道他们之间是怎么说话的。这座镇上发生的每件事，日落之前都会传到警察局。”父亲放下了刀。 “我不知道有什么法律规定他们不能说话。如果我们不给他们那么多话题，他们或许会安静下来。斯库特，你为什么不喝咖啡呢？”我正玩着勺子。“我以为坎宁安先生是我们的朋友。你很久以前就告诉我他是。”“他现在还是。”“但昨晚他想伤害你。”阿蒂克斯把叉子放在刀旁，把盘子推到一边。
　　"Mr. Cunningham's basically a good man," he said, "he just has hisblind spots along with the rest of us."Jem spoke. "Don't call that a blind spot. He'da killed you lastnight when he first went there.""He might have hurt me a little," Atticus conceded, "but son, you'llunderstand folks a little better when you're older. A mob's alwaysmade up of people, no matter what. Mr. Cunningham was part of a moblast night, but he was still a man. Every mob in every little Southerntown is always made up of people you know- doesn't say much forthem, does it?""I'll say not," said Jem.
“坎宁安先生基本上是个好人，”他说，“只是和我们一样，他也有盲点。”杰姆开口说道。“别把那叫做盲点。他昨晚刚去的时候就把你杀了。”“他可能伤了我一点，”阿蒂克斯承认道，“不过儿子，等你长大了，你就会更理解人了。不管怎样，暴徒总是由人组成的。坎宁安先生参加过暴徒之夜，但他毕竟是个男人。南方小镇的暴徒总是由你认识的人组成的——这说明不了什么，对吧？”“我得说不是，”杰姆说。
　　"So it took an eight-year-old child to bring 'em to their senses,didn't it?" said Atticus. "That proves something- that a gang ofwild animals can be stopped, simply because they're still human.
“这么说，一个八岁的孩子就能让他们恢复理智了，不是吗？”阿蒂克斯说。“这证明了一件事——一群野生动物是可以被阻止的，仅仅因为他们还是人类。”
　　Hmp, maybe we need a police force of children… you children lastnight made Walter Cunningham stand in my shoes for a minute. Thatwas enough."Well, I hoped Jem would understand folks a little better when he wasolder; I wouldn't. "First day Walter comes back to school'll be hislast," I affirmed.
哼，也许我们需要一支由孩子组成的警察队伍……昨晚你们这些孩子让沃尔特·坎宁安站在我的立场想了一会儿。这就够了。“好吧，我希望杰姆长大后能更好地理解别人；但我做不到。”“沃尔特回学校的第一天也会是他最后一天，”我肯定地说。
　　"You will not touch him," Atticus said flatly. "I don't wanteither of you bearing a grudge about this thing, no matter whathappens.""You see, don't you," said Aunt Alexandra, "what comes of thingslike this. Don't say I haven't told you."Atticus said he'd never say that, pushed out his chair and got up.
“你们不许碰他，”阿蒂克斯断然说道。“无论发生什么，我都不希望你们俩因为这件事心怀怨恨。”“你们自己心里清楚，”亚历山德拉姑妈说，“这种事会有什么后果，别怪我没告诉过你们。”阿蒂克斯说他绝不会这么说，他推开椅子，站了起来。
　　"There's a day ahead, so excuse me. Jem, I don't want you and Scoutdowntown today, please."As Atticus departed, Dill came bounding down the hall into thediningroom. "It's all over town this morning," he announced, "allabout how we held off a hundred folks with our bare hands…"Aunt Alexandra stared him to silence. "It was not a hundredfolks," she said, "and nobody held anybody off. It was just a nestof those Cunninghams, drunk and disorderly.""Aw, Aunty, that's just Dill's way," said Jem. He signaled us tofollow him.
“还有一天呢，所以失陪一下。杰姆，今天我不想让你和斯库特进城，拜托了。”阿蒂克斯一走，迪尔就蹦蹦跳跳地穿过走廊，进了餐厅。“今天早上全镇都在传，”他宣布，“都在说我们怎么徒手挡住了一百个人……”亚历山德拉姑妈瞪着他，让他哑口无言。“没挡住一百个人，”她说，“也没人挡住谁。只是一窝坎宁安家的人，又醉又闹。”“哎呀，姑妈，迪尔就是这么回事，”杰姆说。他示意我们跟他走。
　　"You all stay in the yard today," she said, as we made our way tothe front porch.
当我们走向前廊时，她说：“今天你们都待在院子里。”
　　It was like Saturday. People from the south end of the county passedour house in a leisurely but steady stream.
那天就像是星期六，县城南边的人川流不息地从我们家门口经过。
　　Mr. Dolphus Raymond lurched by on his thoroughbred. "Don't see howhe stays in the saddle," murmured Jem. "How c'n you stand to get drunk'fore eight in the morning?"A wagonload of ladies rattled past us. They wore cotton sunbonnetsand dresses with long sleeves. A bearded man in a wool hat drove them.
多尔夫斯·雷蒙德先生骑着他的纯种马踉踉跄跄地走过。“真不知道他骑得怎么样，”杰姆低声说。“你怎么能忍受早上八点前就喝醉？”一车女士从我们身边嘎嘎驶过。她们戴着棉布遮阳帽，穿着长袖连衣裙。一个戴着羊毛帽、留着胡子的男人在赶着她们。
　　"Yonder's some Mennonites," Jem said to Dill. "They don't havebuttons." They lived deep in the woods, did most of their tradingacross the river, and rarely came to Maycomb. Dill was interested.
“那边是一些门诺派教徒，”杰姆对迪尔说。“他们没有纽扣。”他们住在森林深处，大部分贸易都在河对岸进行，很少来梅科姆。迪尔对此很感兴趣。
　　"They've all got blue eyes," Jem explained, "and the men can't shaveafter they marry. Their wives like for 'em to tickle 'em with theirbeards."Mr. X Billups rode by on a mule and waved to us. "He's a funny man,"said Jem. "X's his name, not his initial. He was in court one time andthey asked him his name. He said X Billups. Clerk asked him to spellit and he said X. Asked him again and he said X. They kept at ittill he wrote X on a sheet of paper and held it up for everybody tosee. They asked him where he got his name and he said that's the wayhis folks signed him up when he was born."As the county went by us, Jem gave Dill the histories and generalattitudes of the more prominent figures: Mr. Tensaw Jones voted thestraight Prohibition ticket; Miss Emily Davis dipped snuff in private;Mr. Byron Waller could play the violin; Mr. Jake Slade was cutting histhird set of teeth.
“他们都是蓝眼睛，”杰姆解释说，“而且男人们结婚后就不能刮胡子了。他们的妻子喜欢让他们用胡子挠痒痒。”X·比卢普斯先生骑着骡子经过，向我们挥手。“他是个有趣的人，”杰姆说。“X 是他的名字，不是他的首字母。有一次他上法庭，他们问他的名字。他说 X·比卢普斯。书记员让他拼写，他说 X。又问了一遍，他说 X。他们一直问个不停，直到他把 X 写在一张纸上，举起来给所有人看。他们问他姓什么，他说那是他父母在他出生时给他登记的。”县里的人从我们身边走过，杰姆给迪尔讲了一些比较知名的人物的历史和总体态度：滕索·琼斯先生投了禁酒令的赞成票；艾米丽·戴维斯小姐私下里吸鼻烟；……拜伦·沃勒 (Byron Waller) 会拉小提琴；杰克·斯莱德 (Jake Slade) 先生正在长第三套牙齿。
　　A wagonload of unusually stern-faced citizens appeared. When theypointed to Miss Maudie Atkinson's yard, ablaze with summer flowers,Miss Maudie herself came out on the porch. There was an odd thingabout Miss Maudie- on her porch she was too far away for us to see herfeatures clearly, but we could always catch her mood by the way shestood. She was now standing arms akimbo, her shoulders drooping alittle, her head cocked to one side, her glasses winking in thesunlight. We knew she wore a grin of the uttermost wickedness.
一车人脸色异常严肃。他们指着莫迪·阿特金森小姐家那开满夏日鲜花的院子，莫迪小姐本人也走到了门廊上。莫迪小姐有点奇怪——在门廊上，她离我们太远，看不清她的容貌，但我们总能从她站立的姿势看出她的心情。她现在双手叉腰，肩膀微微下垂，头歪向一边，眼镜在阳光下闪闪发光。我们知道她脸上挂着一丝极其邪恶的笑容。
　　The driver of the wagon slowed down his mules, and a shrill-voicedwoman called out: "He that cometh in vanity departeth in darkness!"Miss Maudie answered: "A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance!"I guess that the foot-washers thought that the Devil was quotingScripture for his own purposes, as the driver speeded his mules. Whythey objected to Miss Maudie's yard was a mystery, heightened in mymind because for someone who spent all the daylight hours outdoors,Miss Maudie's command of Scripture was formidable.
马车夫放慢了骡子的速度，一个尖嗓子的女人喊道：“虚荣而来，黑暗而去！”莫迪小姐回答道：“心地快乐，面容开朗！”我猜，那些洗脚者以为魔鬼在引用《圣经》来达到他自己的目的，而马车夫则加速了骡子的步伐。他们为什么反对莫迪小姐的院子，这对我来说是个谜，而我对此更加困惑，因为对于一个白天整天待在户外的人来说，莫迪小姐对《圣经》的掌握令人敬畏。
　　"You goin' to court this morning?" asked Jem. We had strolled over.
“你今天早上要去法庭吗？”杰姆问道。我们漫步走了过去。
　　"I am not," she said. "I have no business with the court thismorning.""Aren't you goin' down to watch?" asked Dill.
“我不是，”她说。“今天早上我和法庭没关系。”“你不下去看看吗？”迪尔问。
　　"I am not. 't's morbid, watching a poor devil on trial for his life.
“我不会的。看着一个可怜的家伙接受生死审讯，这太可怕了。
　　Look at all those folks, it's like a Roman carnival.""They hafta try him in public, Miss Maudie," I said. "Wouldn't beright if they didn't.""I'm quite aware of that," she said. "Just because it's public, Idon't have to go, do I?"Miss Stephanie Crawford came by. She wore a hat and gloves. "Um, um,um," she said. "Look at all those folks- you'd think WilliamJennings Bryan was speakin'.""And where are you going, Stephanie?" inquired Miss Maudie.
看看这么多人，简直像罗马的狂欢节。“莫迪小姐，他们得公开审判他，”我说。“不然就不对了。”“我很清楚，”她说。“就因为是公开的，我就不用去了，对吧？”斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐走了过来。她戴着帽子和手套。“嗯，嗯，嗯，”她说。“看看这么多人——你会觉得威廉·詹宁斯·布莱恩在演讲。”“斯蒂芬妮，你要去哪儿？”莫迪小姐问道。
　　"To the Jitney Jungle."Miss Maudie said she'd never seen Miss Stephanie go to the JitneyJungle in a hat in her life.
“去吉特尼丛林。”莫迪小姐说，她这辈子从来没有见过斯蒂芬妮小姐戴着帽子去吉特尼丛林。
　　"Well," said Miss Stephanie, "I thought I might just look in atthe courthouse, to see what Atticus's up to.""Better be careful he doesn't hand you a subpoena."We asked Miss Maudie to elucidate: she said Miss Stephanie seemed toknow so much about the case she might as well be called on to testify.
“好吧，”斯蒂芬妮小姐说，“我想我可以去法院看看，看看阿蒂克斯在干什么。”“最好小心点，别让他给你发传票。”我们请莫迪小姐解释一下：她说斯蒂芬妮小姐似乎对这个案子了解很多，不妨叫她去作证。
　　We held off until noon, when Atticus came home to dinner and saidthey'd spent the morning picking the jury. After dinner, we stopped byfor Dill and went to town.
我们一直等到中午，阿蒂克斯回家吃晚饭，说他们花了一上午的时间挑选陪审团。晚饭后，我们去接迪尔，然后就进城了。
　　It was a gala occasion. There was no room at the public hitchingrail for another animal, mules and wagons were parked under everyavailable tree. The courthouse square was covered with picnicparties sitting on newspapers, washing down biscuit and syrup withwarm milk from fruit jars. Some people were gnawing on cold chickenand cold fried pork chops. The more affluent chased their food withdrugstore Coca-Cola in bulb-shaped soda glasses. Greasy-faced childrenpopped-the-whip through the crowd, and babies lunched at theirmothers' breasts.
这真是一个盛大的场合。公共拴马栏上再也容不下其他牲畜了，骡子和马车停在每一棵树下。法院广场上挤满了野餐的人群，他们坐在报纸上，用水果罐里的热牛奶把饼干和糖浆送下去。有些人正啃着冷鸡肉和冷炸猪排。富裕的人则用药店里装在球形汽水杯里的可口可乐来补充食物。满脸油腻的孩子们在人群中抽着鞭子，婴儿们则在母亲怀里吃着午餐。
　　In a far corner of the square, the Negroes sat quietly in the sun,dining on sardines, crackers, and the more vivid flavors of Nehi Cola.
在广场远处的角落里，黑人静静地坐在阳光下，吃着沙丁鱼、饼干，喝着口味更浓郁的 Nehi Cola。
　　Mr. Dolphus Raymond sat with them. ...
　　"Jem," said Dill, "he's drinkin' out of a sack."Mr. Dolphus Raymond seemed to be so doing: two yellow drugstorestraws ran from his mouth to the depths of a brown paper bag.
“杰姆，”迪尔说，“他在用袋子喝水。” 多尔夫斯·雷蒙德先生似乎确实在这么做：两根黄色的药店吸管从他的嘴里伸进一个棕色纸袋的深处。
　　"Ain't ever seen anybody do that," murmured Dill.
“我从来没见过有人这么做，”迪尔低声说道。
　　"How does he keep what's in it in it?"Jem giggled. "He's got a Co-Cola bottle full of whiskey in there.
“他是怎么把里面的东西保存起来的？”杰姆咯咯地笑着说，“他里面有一瓶装满威士忌的可乐。”
　　That's so's not to upset the ladies. You'll see him sip it allafternoon, he'll step out for a while and fill it back up.""Why's he sittin' with the colored folks?""Always does. He likes 'em better'n he likes us, I reckon. Livesby himself way down near the county line. He's got a colored woman andall sorts of mixed chillun. Show you some of 'em if we see 'em.""He doesn't look like trash," said Dill.
那是为了不让女士们不高兴。你会看到他整个下午都在喝，他会出去一会儿，然后再把酒灌满。”“他为什么和那些黑人坐在一起？”“总是这样。我估计他喜欢他们胜过喜欢我们。他独自住在离县界很近的地方。他有个黑人女人，还有各种各样的混血孩子。如果我们见到他们，带你去看。”“他看起来不像个废物，”迪尔说。
　　"He's not, he owns all one side of the riverbank down there, andhe's from a real old family to boot.""Then why does he do like that?""That's just his way," said Jem. "They say he never got over hisweddin'. He was supposed to marry one of the- the Spencer ladies, Ithink. They were gonna have a huge weddin', but they didn't- after therehearsal the bride went upstairs and blew her head off. Shotgun.
“才不是呢，那边河岸的整条街都是他的，而且他出身于一个很古老的家族。”“那他为什么那样做呢？”“他就是那样，”杰姆说。“据说他从没从婚礼的阴影中走出来。他本来要娶斯宾塞家的一位女士，我想。他们本来要办个盛大的婚礼，但没办成——彩排结束后，新娘上楼开了枪，把自己的头炸了。用猎枪。”
　　She pulled the trigger with her toes.""Did they ever know why?""No," said Jem, "nobody ever knew quite why but Mr. Dolphus. Theysaid it was because she found out about his colored woman, he reckonedhe could keep her and get married too. He's been sorta drunk eversince. You know, though, he's real good to those chillun-""Jem," I asked, "what's a mixed child?""Half white, half colored. You've seen 'em, Scout. You know thatred-kinky-headed one that delivers for the drugstore. He's half white.
她用脚趾扣动了扳机。“他们知道为什么吗？”“不知道，”杰姆说，“除了多尔弗斯先生，没人知道确切原因。他们说是因为她发现了他那个黑人女人，他觉得可以把她留下来，然后跟她结婚。从那以后他就一直有点醉醺醺的。不过，你知道，他对那些孩子很好——”“杰姆，”我问，“混血儿是什么？”“一半白人，一半黑人。你见过，斯库特。你知道那个给药店送货的红头发卷毛的。他有一半白人血统。”
　　They're real sad.""Sad, how come?""They don't belong anywhere. Colored folks won't have 'em becausethey're half white; white folks won't have 'em cause they'recolored, so they're just in-betweens, don't belong anywhere. But Mr.
他们真的很难过。”“很难过，怎么会这样呢？”“他们哪儿也不属于。有色人种不会接纳他们，因为他们有一半白人血统；白人也不会接纳他们，因为他们有黑人血统。所以他们只是介于两者之间的人，哪儿也不属于。但是……
　　Dolphus, now, they say he's shipped two of his up north. They don'tmind 'em up north. Yonder's one of 'em."A small boy clutching a Negro woman's hand walked toward us. Helooked all Negro to me: he was rich chocolate with flaring nostrilsand beautiful teeth. Sometimes he would skip happily, and the Negrowoman tugged his hand to make him stop.
“多尔弗斯，据说他已经把两个孩子运到北方去了。北方人不介意。那边就是其中一个。”一个小男孩牵着一个黑人女人的手朝我们走来。在我看来，他完全就是个黑人：肤色黝黑，鼻孔张开，牙齿漂亮。有时他会开心地蹦蹦跳跳，黑人女人就会拉着他的手让他停下来。
　　Jem waited until they passed us. "That's one of the little ones," hesaid.
杰姆等他们经过我们身边。“那是一只小家伙，”他说。
　　"How can you tell?" asked Dill. "He looked black to me.""You can't sometimes, not unless you know who they are. But he'shalf Raymond, all right.""But how can you tell?" I asked.
“你怎么看得出来？”迪尔问。“我觉得他像黑人。”“有时候你看不出来，除非你知道他们是谁。不过他确实有点像雷蒙德。”“可是你怎么看得出来呢？”我问。
　　"I told you, Scout, you just hafta know who they are.""Well how do you know we ain't Negroes?""Uncle Jack Finch says we really don't know. He says as far as hecan trace back the Finches we ain't, but for all he knows we mightacome straight out of Ethiopia durin' the Old Testament.""Well if we came out durin' the Old Testament it's too long ago tomatter.""That's what I thought," said Jem, "but around here once you havea drop of Negro blood, that makes you all black. Hey, look-"Some invisible signal had made the lunchers on the square rise andscatter bits of newspaper, cellophane, and wrapping paper. Childrencame to mothers, babies were cradled on hips as men in sweat-stainedhats collected their families and herded them through the courthousedoors. In the far corner of the square the Negroes and Mr. DolphusRaymond stood up and dusted their breeches. There were few women andchildren among them, which seemed to dispel the holiday mood. Theywaited patiently at the doors behind the white families.
“我告诉过你，斯库特，你得知道他们是谁。”“那你怎么知道我们不是黑人？”“杰克·芬奇叔叔说我们真的不知道。他说，就他能追溯到的芬奇家族而言，我们不是，但据他所知，我们可能是在《旧约》时期直接从埃塞俄比亚来的。”“如果我们是在《旧约》时期出来的，那也太久远了，无关紧要。”“我也是这么想的，”杰姆说，“但在这里，只要你流过一滴黑人血统，就意味着你全身都是黑人。嘿，你看——”某种无形的信号让广场上吃午饭的人站了起来，散落着报纸、玻璃纸和包装纸。孩子们来到母亲身边，婴儿被抱在怀里，戴着汗渍斑斑帽子的男人们把他们的家人召集起来，赶着他们穿过法院的大门。在广场远处的角落里，黑人和多尔夫斯·雷蒙德先生站了起来，掸了掸裤子上的灰尘。他们中间几乎没有妇女和孩子，这似乎驱散了节日的气氛。他们耐心地在白人家庭身后的门口等待。
　　"Let's go in," said Dill.
“我们进去吧，”迪尔说。
　　"Naw, we better wait till they get in, Atticus might not like itif he sees us," said Jem.
“不，我们最好等他们进来，如果阿蒂克斯看到我们会不高兴的，”杰姆说。
　　The Maycomb County courthouse was faintly reminiscent of Arlingtonin one respect: the concrete pillars supporting its south roof weretoo heavy for their light burden. The pillars were all that remainedstanding when the original courthouse burned in 1856. Anothercourthouse was built around them. It is better to say, built inspite of them. But for the south porch, the Maycomb Countycourthouse was early Victorian, presenting an unoffensive vista whenseen from the north. From the other side, however, Greek revivalcolumns clashed with a big nineteenth-century clock tower housing arusty unreliable instrument, a view indicating a people determinedto preserve every physical scrap of the past.
梅科姆县法院在某个方面略显类似阿灵顿：支撑其南屋顶的混凝土柱子太重，无法承受它们轻盈的重量。1856年原法院被烧毁时，仅存的柱子便是这些柱子。另一座法院围绕着它们建造。更确切地说，是一座不顾这些柱子而建的法院。除了南门廊之外，梅科姆县法院属于早期维多利亚风格，从北面望去，景色并不突兀。然而，从另一侧望去，希腊复兴风格的柱子与一座矗立着锈迹斑斑、不可靠仪器的19世纪巨型钟楼形成了鲜明对比，这一景象表明，人们决心保留每一点历史的遗迹。
　　To reach the courtroom, on the second floor, one passed sundrysunless county cubbyholes: the tax assessor, the tax collector, thecounty clerk, the county solicitor, the circuit clerk, the judge ofprobate lived in cool dim hutches that smelled of decaying recordbooks mingled with old damp cement and stale urine. It was necessaryto turn on the lights in the daytime; there was always a film ofdust on the rough floorboards. The inhabitants of these offices werecreatures of their environment: little gray-faced men, they seemeduntouched by wind or sun.
要到达二楼的法庭，得经过各式各样阴暗的县级办公室：税务评估员、税务员、县书记员、县律师、巡回法院书记员、遗嘱认证法官都住在阴凉昏暗的小屋里，散发着腐烂的档案簿、潮湿的水泥和陈旧的尿液的气味。白天必须开灯；粗糙的地板上总是积着一层灰尘。这些办公室里的人都与环境融为一体：他们个子矮小，面色灰白，似乎从未受到风吹日晒的侵袭。
　　We knew there was a crowd, but we had not bargained for themultitudes in the first-floor hallway. I got separated from Jem andDill, but made my way toward the wall by the stairwell, knowing Jemwould come for me eventually. I found myself in the middle of theIdlers' Club and made myself as unobtrusive as possible. This was agroup of white-shirted, khaki-trousered, suspendered old men who hadspent their lives doing nothing and passed their twilight days doingsame on pine benches under the live oaks on the square. Attentivecritics of courthouse business, Atticus said they knew as much lawas the Chief Justice, from long years of observation. Normally, theywere the court's only spectators, and today they seemed resentful ofthe interruption of their comfortable routine. When they spoke,their voices sounded casually important. The conversation was about myfather.
我们知道人很多，但我们没想到一楼走廊里会有这么多人。我和杰姆和迪尔走散了，但我还是朝楼梯间的墙走去，心知杰姆迟早会来找我。我发现自己身处“闲人俱乐部”的中央，尽量让自己不引人注目。这是一群穿着白衬衫、卡其裤、背带裤的老头，他们一生无所事事，直到暮年也无所事事地坐在广场上橡树下的松木长椅上。阿蒂克斯说，他们是法院事务的细心评论员，凭借多年的观察，他们懂的法律知识和首席大法官一样多。通常情况下，他们是法庭上唯一的旁观者，而今天，他们似乎对舒适的日常事务被打断感到不满。他们说话时，语气听起来漫不经心，却又带着一丝严肃。谈话的内容是我父亲。
　　"…thinks he knows what he's doing," one said.
“……他认为自己知道自己在做什么，”其中一人说道。
　　"Oh-h now, I wouldn't say that," said another. "Atticus Finch's adeep reader, a mighty deep reader.""He reads all right, that's all he does." The club snickered.
“哦，我可不这么认为，”另一个人说。“阿提克斯·芬奇的读者很深，非常深奥。”“他读书还行，就读这个。”俱乐部里的人窃笑起来。
　　"Lemme tell you somethin' now, Billy," a third said, "you know thecourt appointed him to defend this nigger.""Yeah, but Atticus aims to defend him. That's what I don't likeabout it."This was news, news that put a different light on things: Atticushad to, whether he wanted to or not. I thought it odd that he hadn'tsaid anything to us about it- we could have used it many times indefending him and ourselves. He had to, that's why he was doing it,equaled fewer fights and less fussing. But did that explain the town'sattitude? The court appointed Atticus to defend him. Atticus aimedto defend him. That's what they didn't like about it. It wasconfusing.
“比利，现在让我告诉你一件事，”第三个人说，“你知道法院指定他来为这个黑鬼辩护。”“是啊，但阿蒂克斯的目标是为他辩护。这就是我不喜欢的地方。”这可是新闻，它从另一个角度阐述了事情：阿蒂克斯必须这么做，不管他愿不愿意。我觉得很奇怪，他竟然没跟我们提这件事——我们本来可以用它来保护他和我们自己很多次。他不得不这么做，所以他才这么做，这样可以减少打架和争吵。但这能解释镇上人们的态度吗？法院指定阿蒂克斯为他辩护。阿蒂克斯的目标是为他辩护。这就是他们不喜欢的地方。这让人困惑。
　　The Negroes, having waited for the white people to go upstairs,began to come in. "Whoa now, just a minute," said a club member,holding up his walking stick. "Just don't start up them there stairsyet awhile."The club began its stiff-jointed climb and ran into Dill and Jemon their way down looking for me. They squeezed past and Jem called,"Scout, come on, there ain't a seat left. We'll hafta stand up.""Looka there, now." he said irritably, as the black people surgedupstairs. The old men ahead of them would take most of the standingroom. We were out of luck and it was my fault, Jem informed me. Westood miserably by the wall.
黑人等白人上楼后，开始进来。“等等，等一下，”一个俱乐部成员举着拐杖说，“先别上楼。”俱乐部成员僵硬地爬楼梯，撞见迪尔和杰蒙下楼来找我。他们挤了过去，杰姆喊道：“斯库特，快点，没座位了。我们得站起来。”“瞧瞧那儿，”他烦躁地说，这时黑人涌上楼来。他们前面的老人会占去大部分站位。我们运气不好，都是我的错，杰姆告诉我。我们只能靠墙站着，一脸沮丧。
　　"Can't you all get in?"Reverend Sykes was looking down at us, black hat in hand.
“你们都不能进来吗？”赛克斯牧师手里拿着黑色的帽子，俯视着我们。
　　"Hey, Reverend," said Jem. "Naw, Scout here messed us up.""Well, let's see what we can do."Reverend Sykes edged his way upstairs. In a few moments he was back.
“嘿，牧师，”杰姆说，“不行，斯库特把我们给搞坏了。”“好吧，我们看看能做什么。”赛克斯牧师挪步上楼。一会儿就回来了。
　　"There's not a seat downstairs. Do you all reckon it'll be all rightif you all came to the balcony with me?""Gosh yes," said Jem. Happily, we sped ahead of Reverend Sykes tothe courtroom floor. There, we went up a covered staircase andwaited at the door. Reverend Sykes came puffing behind us, and steeredus gently through the black people in the balcony. Four Negroes roseand gave us their front-row seats.
“楼下没座位了。你们觉得跟我一起去楼上可以吗？”“天哪，可以。”杰姆说。我们兴高采烈地赶在赛克斯牧师前面，来到法庭大厅。我们上了一段有顶的楼梯，在门口等候。赛克斯牧师气喘吁吁地跟在我们后面，轻轻地引导我们穿过楼上一群黑人。四个黑人起身，把他们的前排座位让给了我们。
　　The Colored balcony ran along three walls of the courtroom like asecond-story veranda, and from it we could see everything.
有色人种阳台沿着法庭的三面墙壁延伸，就像二楼的走廊，从那里我们可以看到一切。
　　The jury sat to the left, under long windows. Sunburned, lanky, theyseemed to be all farmers, but this was natural: townfolk rarely sat onjuries, they were either struck or excused. One or two of the jurylooked vaguely like dressed-up Cunninghams. At this stage they satstraight and alert.
陪审员坐在左边，长窗下。他们皮肤黝黑，身材瘦削，看起来都是农民，但这也很正常：镇上的人很少陪审，他们要么被罢免，要么被免除。陪审员中有一两个人看起来有点像装扮一新的坎宁安。这时，他们端坐着，神情警惕。
　　The circuit solicitor and another man, Atticus and Tom Robinsonsat at tables with their backs to us. There was a brown book andsome yellow tablets on the solicitor's table; Atticus's was bare.
巡回律师和另一个人，阿蒂克斯和汤姆·罗宾逊，背对着我们坐在桌边。律师的桌子上放着一本棕色的书和几张黄色的便笺；阿蒂克斯的桌子上空空如也。
　　Just inside the railing that divided the spectators from thecourt, the witnesses sat on cowhide-bottomed chairs. Their backswere to us.
就在将旁听席与法庭隔开的栏杆内侧，证人们坐在牛皮底的椅子上，背对着我们。
　　Judge Taylor was on the bench, looking like a sleepy old shark,his pilot fish writing rapidly below in front of him. Judge Taylorlooked like most judges I had ever seen: amiable, white-haired,slightly ruddy-faced, he was a man who ran his court with analarming informality- he sometimes propped his feet up, he oftencleaned his fingernails with his pocket knife. In long equityhearings, especially after dinner, he gave the impression of dozing,an impression dispelled forever when a lawyer once deliberately pusheda pile of books to the floor in a desperate effort to wake him up.
泰勒法官坐在法官席上，像一条昏昏欲睡的老鲨鱼，他的领航鱼在他面前飞快地书写着。泰勒法官和我见过的大多数法官没什么两样：和蔼可亲，满头白发，脸色略红，他主持法庭的方式令人担忧地随意——有时他把脚翘起来，还经常用小刀刮指甲。在漫长的公平听证会上，尤其是晚饭后，他总是给人一种打瞌睡的感觉。有一次，一位律师为了把他叫醒，故意把一堆书推到地上，彻底改变了他打瞌睡的印象。
　　Without opening his eyes, Judge Taylor murmured, "Mr. Whitley, do thatagain and it'll cost you one hundred dollars."He was a man learned in the law, and although he seemed to takehis job casually, in reality he kept a firm grip on any proceedingsthat came before him. Only once was Judge Taylor ever seen at a deadstandstill in open court, and the Cunninghams stopped him. OldSarum, their stamping grounds, was populated by two familiesseparate and apart in the beginning, but unfortunately bearing thesame name. The Cunninghams married the Coninghams until the spellingof the names was academic- academic until a Cunningham disputed aConingham over land titles and took to the law. During a controversyof this character, Jeems Cunningham testified that his motherspelled it Cunningham on deeds and things, but she was really aConingham, she was an uncertain speller, a seldom reader, and wasgiven to looking far away sometimes when she sat on the frontgallery in the evening. After nine hours of listening to theeccentricities of Old Sarum's inhabitants, Judge Taylor threw the caseout of court. When asked upon what grounds, Judge Taylor said,"Champertous connivance," and declared he hoped to God the litigantswere satisfied by each having had their public say. They were. Thatwas all they had wanted in the first place.
泰勒法官眼睛都没睁开，低声说道：“惠特利先生，再这样就罚你一百美元。”他精通法律，虽然表面上对工作漫不经心，但实际上他掌控着所有案件。只有一次，泰勒法官在公开法庭上僵持不下，是坎宁安一家拦住了他。他们的聚集地老萨鲁姆，最初住着两个截然不同的家庭，但不幸的是，他们姓氏相同。坎宁安一家与康宁安一家联姻，直到他们姓氏的拼写变得学术化——直到坎宁安一家与康宁安一家因土地所有权纠纷而诉诸法律。在一场关于此案的争议中，吉姆斯·坎宁安作证说，他母亲在“契约和物品”上拼写成“坎宁安”，但她实际上姓康宁安，拼写不准，很少读书，晚上坐在前廊时，有时会望向远方。泰勒法官听了老塞勒姆居民九个小时的怪癖后，驳回了此案。当被问及理由时，泰勒法官说：“钱佩图斯的纵容”，并声称他希望双方当事人都能对各自公开发表的言论感到满意。他们确实如此。这正是他们最初想要的。
　　Judge Taylor had one interesting habit. He permitted smoking inhis courtroom but did not himself indulge: sometimes, if one waslucky, one had the privilege of watching him put a long dry cigar intohis mouth and munch it slowly up. Bit by bit the dead cigar woulddisappear, to reappear some hours later as a flat slick mess, itsessence extracted and mingling with Judge Taylor's digestive juices. Ionce asked Atticus how Mrs. Taylor stood to kiss him, but Atticus saidthey didn't kiss much.
泰勒法官有个有趣的习惯。他允许在法庭上吸烟，但他自己却不放纵自己：有时，如果运气好的话，还能看到他把一根长长的干雪茄放进嘴里，慢慢地嚼碎。这根干透的雪茄会一点一点地消失，几个小时后又会重新出现，变成一团扁平、滑溜的物质，它的精华被提取出来，与泰勒法官的消化液混合在一起。我曾问过阿蒂克斯，泰勒太太吻他时会有什么感觉，但阿蒂克斯说他们不怎么接吻。
　　The witness stand was to the right of Judge Taylor, and when wegot to our seats Mr. Heck Tate was already on it.
证人席位于泰勒法官的右侧，当我们坐到座位上时，赫克·泰特先生已经在证人席上了。
　　17"Jem," I said, "are those the Ewells sittin' down yonder?""Hush," said Jem, "Mr. Heck Tate's testifyin'."Mr. Tate had dressed for the occasion. He wore an ordinarybusiness suit, which made him look somehow like every other man:
17“杰姆，”我说，“那边坐着的就是尤厄尔一家吗？”“嘘，”杰姆说，“赫克·泰特先生来作证了。”泰特先生特意打扮了一下。他穿着一套普通的西装，这让他看起来和其他人没什么两样：
　　gone were his high boots, lumber jacket, and bullet-studded belt. Fromthat moment he ceased to terrify me. He was sitting forward in thewitness chair, his hands clasped between his knees, listeningattentively to the circuit solicitor.
他的高筒靴、伐木夹克和布满子弹的皮带都不见了。从那一刻起，他不再让我感到恐惧。他坐在证人席的前方，双手交叠在膝盖之间，专心地听着巡回法庭律师的陈述。
　　The solicitor, a Mr. Gilmer, was not well known to us. He was fromAbbottsville; we saw him only when court convened, and that rarely,for court was of no special interest to Jem and me. A balding,smooth-faced man, he could have been anywhere between forty and sixty.
这位律师名叫吉尔默先生，我们不太熟悉。他来自阿伯茨维尔；我们只在开庭时见到他，而且很少，因为杰姆和我都对开庭没什么特别的兴趣。他秃顶，面容光滑，大概四六十岁左右。
　　Although his back was to us, we knew he had a slight cast in one ofhis eyes which he used to his advantage: he seemed to be looking ata person when he was actually doing nothing of the kind, thus he washell on juries and witnesses. The jury, thinking themselves underclose scrutiny, paid attention; so did the witnesses, thinkinglikewise.
虽然他背对着我们，但我们知道他有一只眼睛微微斜视，他利用了这一点：他看起来像是在看着一个人，但实际上他什么也没做，因此他对陪审团和证人表现出了极大的兴趣。陪审团以为自己受到了密切关注，于是集中注意力；证人也一样，他们也这么想。
　　"…in your own words, Mr. Tate," Mr. Gilmer was saying.
“……用您自己的话说，泰特先生，”吉尔默先生说道。
　　"Well," said Mr. Tate, touching his glasses and speaking to hisknees, "I was called-""Could you say it to the jury, Mr. Tate? Thank you. Who called you?"Mr. Tate said, "I was fetched by Bob- by Mr. Bob Ewell yonder, onenight-""What night, sir?"Mr. Tate said, "It was the night of November twenty-first. I wasjust leaving my office to go home when B- Mr. Ewell came in, veryexcited he was, and said get out to his house quick, some nigger'draped his girl.""Did you go?""Certainly. Got in the car and went out as fast as I could.""And what did you find?""Found her lying on the floor in the middle of the front room, oneon the right as you go in. She was pretty well beat up, but I heavedher to her feet and she washed her face in a bucket in the cornerand said she was all right. I asked her who hurt her and she said itwas Tom Robinson-"Judge Taylor, who had been concentrating on his fingernails,looked up as if he were expecting an objection, but Atticus was quiet.
“嗯，”泰特先生说着，摸了摸眼镜，对着膝盖说，“我被叫——”“泰特先生，您能告诉陪审团吗？谢谢。是谁叫您的？”泰特先生说，“一天晚上，鲍勃——那边的鲍勃·尤厄尔先生把我叫来了——”“哪天晚上，先生？”泰特说：“那是十一月二十一日晚上。我正要出办公室回家，B……尤厄尔先生进来了，他非常激动，说‘快点去他家，有个黑鬼绑架了他的女朋友。’”“你去了吗？”“当然去了。我上了车，尽快地冲了出去。”“你发现了什么？”“发现她躺在前屋中间的地板上，进去后右边的那个房间。她被打得不轻，但我把她扶起来，她在角落里的桶里洗了把脸，说她没事。我问她是谁打的，她说是汤姆·鲁宾逊——”泰勒法官一直专心于修剪指甲，抬起头来，好像在等着他反驳，但阿蒂克斯却一声不吭。
　　"-asked her if he beat her like that, she said yes he had. Asked herif he took advantage of her and she said yes he did. So I went down toRobinson's house and brought him back. She identified him as theone, so I took him in. That's all there was to it.""Thank you," said Mr. Gilmer.
“——我问她他是不是那样打她，她说是的。我问她他是不是占了她的便宜，她说是的。于是我去了罗宾逊家，把他带了回来。她认出他就是那个人，所以我就把他收留了。事情就是这样。”“谢谢你，”吉尔默先生说。
　　Judge Taylor said, "Any questions, Atticus?""Yes," said my father. He was sitting behind his table; his chairwas skewed to one side, his legs were crossed and one arm wasresting on the back of his chair.
泰勒法官说：“阿蒂克斯，有什么问题吗？”“是的，”我父亲说。他坐在桌子后面，椅子歪向一边，双腿交叉，一只胳膊搭在椅背上。
　　"Did you call a doctor, Sheriff? Did anybody call a doctor?" askedAtticus.
“警长，你叫医生了吗？有人叫医生了吗？”阿蒂克斯问。
　　"No sir," said Mr. Tate. ...
　　"Didn't call a doctor?""No sir," repeated Mr. Tate.
“没有叫医生吗？”“没有，先生，”泰特先生重复道。
　　"Why not?" There was an edge to Atticus's voice.
“为什么不呢？”阿蒂克斯的声音有些尖锐。
　　"Well I can tell you why I didn't. It wasn't necessary, Mr. Finch.
“好吧，我可以告诉你为什么我没有这么做。没有必要，芬奇先生。”
　　She was mighty banged up. Something sho' happened, it was obvious.""But you didn't call a doctor? While you were there did anyonesend for one, fetch one, carry her to one?""No sir-"Judge Taylor broke in. "He's answered the question three times,Atticus. He didn't call a doctor."Atticus said, "I just wanted to make sure, Judge," and the judgesmiled.
她伤得很重。肯定出事了，这很明显。”“可是你没叫医生吗？你去的时候，有没有人叫医生，有人把她抬到医院去？”“没有，先生——”泰勒法官插嘴道。“阿蒂克斯，他已经回答了三次这个问题了。他没有叫医生。”阿蒂克斯说：“我只是想确认一下，法官。”法官笑了。
　　Jem's hand, which was resting on the balcony rail, tightenedaround it. He drew in his breath suddenly. Glancing below, I saw nocorresponding reaction, and wondered if Jem was trying to be dramatic.
杰姆的手原本放在阳台栏杆上，现在却紧紧地抓住了它。他突然倒吸了一口气。我往下看了一眼，却没有看到他做出任何反应，心想杰姆是不是在故意装腔作势。
　　Dill was watching peacefully, and so was Reverend Sykes beside him.
迪尔平静地看着，他旁边的赛克斯牧师也平静地看着。
　　"What is it?" I whispered, and got a terse, "Sh-h!""Sheriff," Atticus was saying, "you say she was mighty banged up. Inwhat way?""Well-""Just describe her injuries, Heck.""Well, she was beaten around the head. There was already bruisescomin' on her arms, and it happened about thirty minutes before-""How do you know?"Mr. Tate grinned. "Sorry, that's what they said. Anyway, she waspretty bruised up when I got there, and she had a black eye comin'.""Which eye?"Mr. Tate blinked and ran his hands through his hair. "Let's see," hesaid softly, then he looked at Atticus as if he considered thequestion childish. "Can't you remember?" Atticus asked.
“怎么回事？”我低声问道，得到的回应是简短的“嘘！”“警长，”阿蒂克斯说道，“您说她伤得很重。具体是怎么伤的？”“嗯——”“赫克，描述一下她的伤势吧。”“嗯，她头部被打伤了。胳膊上已经有淤青了，大约三十分钟前就发生了——”“你怎么知道？”泰特先生咧嘴一笑。“抱歉，他们是这么说的。总之，我到的时候她已经淤青了，而且她的眼睛也快要青了。”“哪只眼睛？”泰特先生眨了眨眼，用手捋了捋头发。“让我想想，”他轻声说道，然后看着阿蒂克斯，仿佛觉得这个问题很幼稚。“你记不住吗？”阿蒂克斯问道。
　　Mr. Tate pointed to an invisible person five inches in front ofhim and said, "Her left.""Wait a minute, Sheriff," said Atticus. "Was it her left facingyou or her left looking the same way you were?"Mr. Tate said, "Oh yes, that'd make it her right. It was her righteye, Mr. Finch. I remember now, she was bunged up on that side ofher face…"Mr. Tate blinked again, as if something had suddenly been made plainto him. Then he turned his head and looked around at Tom Robinson.
泰特先生指着前方五英寸处一个隐形人说：“她的左边。” “等一下，警长，”阿蒂克斯说。“是她的左边朝着你，还是她的左边和你一样？” 泰特先生说：“哦，是的，那就说明是她的右边。芬奇先生，是她的右眼。我记得，她脸的那一侧被堵住了……” 泰特先生又眨了眨眼，仿佛突然明白了什么。然后他转过头，看着汤姆·鲁宾逊。
　　As if by instinct, Tom Robinson raised his head. ...
　　Something had been made plain to Atticus also, and it brought him tohis feet. "Sheriff, please repeat what you said.""It was her right eye, I said.""No…" Atticus walked to the court reporter's desk and bent down tothe furiously scribbling hand. It stopped, flipped back theshorthand pad, and the court reporter said, "'Mr. Finch. I remembernow she was bunged up on that side of the face.'"Atticus looked up at Mr. Tate. "Which side again, Heck?""The right side, Mr. Finch, but she had more bruises- you wanta hearabout 'em?"Atticus seemed to be bordering on another question, but he thoughtbetter of it and said, "Yes, what were her other injuries?" As Mr.
阿蒂克斯也明白了些什么，这让他猛地站了起来。“警长，请再说一遍。”“我说的是她的右眼。”“不……”阿蒂克斯走到法庭书记员的桌旁，弯下腰，看着那只正在狂乱地记录着的手。它停了下来，翻回速记本，法庭书记员说：“‘芬奇先生。我记得她脸那边受了伤。’”阿蒂克斯抬头看着泰特先生。“赫克，又是哪边？”“右边，芬奇先生，但她身上还有更多瘀伤——你想听听吗？”阿蒂克斯似乎想问另一个问题，但他想了想，说道：“是的，她还受了什么伤？”泰特先生……
　　Tate answered, Atticus turned and looked at Tom Robinson as if tosay this was something they hadn't bargained for.
泰特回答道，阿蒂克斯转过身看着汤姆·鲁宾逊，仿佛在说这是他们没有预料到的事情。
　　"…her arms were bruised, and she showed me her neck. There weredefinite finger marks on her gullet-""All around her throat? At the back of her neck?""I'd say they were all around, Mr. Finch.""You would?""Yes sir, she had a small throat, anybody could'a reached aroundit with-""Just answer the question yes or no, please, Sheriff," saidAtticus dryly, and Mr. Tate fell silent.
“……她的胳膊上都有淤青，她还给我看了脖子。她的食道上确实有指印——”“绕着她的喉咙？在她脖子后面？”“我觉得它们绕着她的喉咙，芬奇先生。”“你觉得呢？”“是的，先生，她的喉咙很小，任何人都能够到——”“警长，请直接回答‘是’或‘不是’就好。”阿蒂克斯冷冷地说，泰特先生沉默了。
　　Atticus sat down and nodded to the circuit solicitor, who shookhis head at the judge, who nodded to Mr. Tate, who rose stiffly andstepped down from the witness stand.
阿蒂克斯坐下来，向巡回检察官点点头，巡回检察官向法官摇摇头，法官又向泰特先生点点头，泰特先生僵硬地站起来，走下了证人席。
　　Below us, heads turned, feet scraped the floor, babies wereshifted to shoulders, and a few children scampered out of thecourtroom. The Negroes behind us whispered softly among themselves;Dill was asking Reverend Sykes what it was all about, but ReverendSykes said he didn't know. So far, things were utterly dull: nobodyhad thundered, there were no arguments between opposing counsel, therewas no drama; a grave disappointment to all present, it seemed.
在我们下方，人们纷纷转过头，脚步声在地板上摩擦，婴儿被抬到肩上，几个孩子从法庭里跑了出来。我们身后的黑人低声窃窃私语；迪尔问赛克斯牧师是怎么回事，但赛克斯牧师说他不知道。到目前为止，一切都很沉闷：没有人大发雷霆，对方律师之间没有辩论，也没有什么戏剧性的场面；似乎让在场的所有人都大失所望。
　　Atticus was proceeding amiably, as if he were involved in a titledispute. With his infinite capacity for calming turbulent seas, hecould make a rape case as dry as a sermon. Gone was the terror in mymind of stale whiskey and barnyard smells, of sleepy-eyed sullenmen, of a husky voice calling in the night, "Mr. Finch? They gone?"Our nightmare had gone with daylight, everything would come out allright.
阿蒂克斯和蔼地进行着，仿佛卷入了一场所有权纠纷。他拥有无限的平息惊涛骇浪的能力，可以让一桩强奸案变得像布道一样枯燥乏味。我脑海中那些陈腐的威士忌和谷仓的气味，那些睡眼惺忪、阴沉沉的男人，以及夜里沙哑的喊叫声：“芬奇先生？他们走了吗？”的恐惧都消失了。我们的噩梦随着天亮而消逝，一切都会好起来的。
　　All the spectators were as relaxed as Judge Taylor, except Jem.
除了杰姆之外，所有观众都和泰勒法官一样放松。
　　His mouth was twisted into a purposeful half-grin, and his eyeshappy about, and he said something about corroborating evidence, whichmade me sure he was showing off.
他的嘴角露出一个意味深长的笑容，眼神愉悦，还说了些关于佐证的话，这让我确信他是在炫耀。
　　"…Robert E. Lee Ewell!"In answer to the clerk's booming voice, a little bantam cock of aman rose and strutted to the stand, the back of his neck reddeningat the sound of his name. When he turned around to take the oath, wesaw that his face was as red as his neck. We also saw no resemblanceto his namesake. A shock of wispy new-washed hair stood up from hisforehead; his nose was thin, pointed, and shiny; he had no chin tospeak of- it seemed to be part of his crepey neck.
“……罗伯特·E·李·尤厄尔！”听着书记员洪亮的声音，一个矮小的男子站起身，大摇大摆地走向宣誓台，听到自己的名字，后颈涨得通红。当他转身宣誓时，我们发现他的脸和脖子一样红。我们也看不出他和同名者有什么相似之处。一缕刚洗过的稀疏头发从他的额头上翘起；他的鼻子又细又尖，油光锃亮；他没有下巴——那似乎是他皱巴巴的脖子的一部分。
　　"-so help me God," he crowed. ...
　　Every town the size of Maycomb had families like the Ewells. Noeconomic fluctuations changed their status- people like the Ewellslived as guests of the county in prosperity as well as in the depthsof a depression. No truant officers could keep their numerousoffspring in school; no public health officer could free them fromcongenital defects, various worms, and the diseases indigenous tofilthy surroundings.
每个像梅科姆镇这样规模的城镇都有像尤厄尔一家这样的家庭。经济波动不会改变他们的地位——像尤厄尔一家这样的人，无论在繁荣时期还是在萧条时期，都像郡里的客人一样生活。没有逃学官员能让他们众多的孩子继续上学；没有公共卫生官员能让他们摆脱先天缺陷、各种寄生虫以及肮脏环境中常见的疾病。
　　Maycomb's Ewells lived behind the town garbage dump in what was oncea Negro cabin. The cabin's plank walls were supplemented with sheetsof corrugated iron, its roof shingled with tin cans hammered flat,so only its general shape suggested its original design: square,with four tiny rooms opening onto a shotgun hall, the cabin resteduneasily upon four irregular lumps of limestone. Its windows weremerely open spaces in the walls, which in the summertime werecovered with greasy strips of cheesecloth to keep out the varmintsthat feasted on Maycomb's refuse.
梅科姆镇的尤厄尔一家住在镇上垃圾场后面，那里曾经是一间黑人小屋。小屋的木板墙用波纹铁皮加固，屋顶用敲平的锡罐瓦片铺成，因此只有整体形状能让人联想到最初的设计：方形，四个小房间通向一个简易走廊，小屋摇摇晃晃地坐落在四块不规则的石灰岩上。它的窗户只是墙上的空隙，夏天的时候，墙上会盖上油腻腻的粗棉布条，以防那些以梅科姆垃圾为食的害虫。
　　The varmints had a lean time of it, for the Ewells gave the dump athorough gleaning every day, and the fruits of their industry （thosethat were not eaten） made the plot of ground around the cabin looklike the playhouse of an insane child: what passed for a fence wasbits of tree-limbs, broomsticks and tool shafts, all tipped with rustyhammer-heads, snaggle-toothed rake heads, shovels, axes and grubbinghoes, held on with pieces of barbed wire. Enclosed by this barricadewas a dirty yard containing the remains of a Model-T Ford （on blocks），a discarded dentist's chair, an ancient icebox, plus lesser items: oldshoes, worn-out table radios, picture frames, and fruit jars, underwhich scrawny orange chickens pecked hopefully.
这些害虫的日子过得可不好过，因为尤厄尔一家每天都要把垃圾场里的垃圾彻底捡拾干净。他们辛勤劳动的成果（那些没吃掉的）让小屋周围的那块地看起来像个疯孩子的游乐场：所谓的篱笆其实是一些树枝、扫帚柄和工具柄，上面装着生锈的锤头、参差不齐的耙头、铲子、斧头和挖土锄，用带刺的铁丝网固定着。这道篱笆围起来的是一个肮脏的院子，里面堆满了一辆福特 T 型车的残骸（放在木块上）、一张废弃的牙医椅、一个老旧的冰箱，还有一些其他的小东西：旧鞋、破旧的台式收音机、相框和水果罐，罐底下，瘦骨嶙峋的橘色小鸡满怀希望地啄着东西。
　　One corner of the yard, though, bewildered Maycomb. Against thefence, in a line, were six chipped-enamel slop jars holdingbrilliant red geraniums, cared for as tenderly as if they belongedto Miss Maudie Atkinson, had Miss Maudie deigned to permit ageranium on her premises. People said they were Mayella Ewell's.
然而，院子里有一角却让梅科姆感到困惑。靠着篱笆，一排摆放着六个剥落的搪瓷罐，里面盛着鲜红的天竺葵，它们被精心照料着，仿佛是莫迪·阿特金森小姐的，如果莫迪小姐允许在她的院子里种植天竺葵的话。人们说它们是梅耶拉·尤厄尔的。
　　Nobody was quite sure how many children were on the place. Somepeople said six, others said nine; there were always severaldirty-faced ones at the windows when anyone passed by. Nobody hadoccasion to pass by except at Christmas, when the churches deliveredbaskets, and when the mayor of Maycomb asked us to please help thegarbage collector by dumping our own trees and trash.
没人确切知道这里到底有多少孩子。有人说六个，有人说九个；每当有人经过，总有几个满脸脏兮兮的孩子在窗口。除了圣诞节，教堂会送来篮子，以及梅科姆镇长请我们帮垃圾收集员倒掉我们自己的树和垃圾的时候，没人会经过。
　　Atticus took us with him last Christmas when he complied with themayor's request. A dirt road ran from the highway past the dump,down to a small Negro settlement some five hundred yards beyond theEwells'. It was necessary either to back out to the highway or gothe full length of the road and turn around; most people turned aroundin the Negroes' front yards. In the frosty December dusk, their cabinslooked neat and snug with pale blue smoke rising from the chimneys anddoorways glowing amber from the fires inside. There were delicioussmells about: chicken, bacon frying crisp as the twilight air. Jem andI detected squirrel cooking, but it took an old countryman likeAtticus to identify possum and rabbit, aromas that vanished when werode back past the Ewell residence.
去年圣诞节，阿蒂克斯遵照市长的吩咐带我们去了。一条土路从公路穿过垃圾场，一直延伸到尤厄尔家五百码外的一个黑人小聚居地。我们要么倒车回到公路上，要么绕着路走一圈再掉头；大多数人都会在黑人家的前院掉头。在十二月寒风凛冽的黄昏，他们的小屋看起来整洁舒适，烟囱里袅袅升起淡蓝色的炊烟，门廊里燃烧的炉火发出琥珀色的光芒。四周弥漫着诱人的香味：鸡肉、培根煎得酥脆，如同暮色中的空气。杰姆和我闻到了松鼠烤肉的味道，但只有像阿蒂克斯这样的老乡才辨认出负鼠和兔子的味道，这些香味在我们骑车经过尤厄尔家时就消失了。
　　All the little man on the witness stand had that made him any betterthan his nearest neighbors was, that if scrubbed with lye soap in veryhot water, his skin was white.
证人席上的这个小个子男人，唯一让他比他最近的邻居好的地方就是，如果用热水和碱性肥皂擦洗，他的皮肤就会变白。
　　"Mr. Robert Ewell?" asked Mr. Gilmer. ...
　　"That's m'name, cap'n," said the witness.
“这是我的名字，船长，”证人说道。
　　Mr. Gilmer's back stiffened a little, and I felt sorry for him.
吉尔默先生的背有些僵硬，我为他感到难过。
　　Perhaps I'd better explain something now. I've heard that lawyers'
也许我现在最好解释一下。我听说律师的
　　children, on seeing their parents in court in the heat of argument,get the wrong idea: they think opposing counsel to be the personalenemies of their parents, they suffer agonies, and are surprised tosee them often go out arm-in-arm with their tormenters during thefirst recess. This was not true of Jem and me. We acquired notraumas from watching our father win or lose. I'm sorry that I can'tprovide any drama in this respect; if I did, it would not be true.
孩子们看到父母在法庭上激烈辩论，会产生误解：他们认为对方律师是父母的私敌，他们痛苦不堪，甚至惊讶地发现，父母常常在第一次休庭时就和折磨他们的人手挽手地走出法庭。杰姆和我的情况并非如此。我们并没有因为目睹父亲的胜败而受到心理创伤。很抱歉，我无法提供任何关于这方面的戏剧性内容；如果我能提供，那就不是真的了。
　　We could tell, however, when debate became more acrimonious thanprofessional, but this was from watching lawyers other than ourfather. I never heard Atticus raise his voice in my life, except toa deaf witness. Mr. Gilmer was doing his job, as Atticus was doinghis. Besides, Mr. Ewell was Mr. Gilmer's witness, and he had nobusiness being rude to him of all people.
然而，我们能察觉到辩论何时变得激烈过头，而非专业化，但这是从观察父亲以外的律师得来的。我这辈子从未听过阿蒂克斯大声说话，除非是对着一个聋哑证人。吉尔默先生在尽他的职责，阿蒂克斯也在尽他的职责。再说，尤厄尔先生是吉尔默先生的证人，他根本没有资格对他无礼。
　　"Are you the father of Mayella Ewell?" was the next question.
接下来的问题是：“您是梅耶拉·尤厄尔的父亲吗？”
　　"Well, if I ain't I can't do nothing about it now, her ma's dead,"was the answer.
“好吧，如果我不这样做，我现在就无能为力了，她妈妈已经去世了，”他回答道。
　　Judge Taylor stirred. He turned slowly in his swivel chair andlooked benignly at the witness. "Are you the father of Mayella Ewell?"he asked, in a way that made the laughter below us stop suddenly.
泰勒法官动了动。他缓缓转过身，慈祥地看着证人。“你是梅耶拉·尤厄尔的父亲吗？”他问道，语气让楼下的笑声戛然而止。
　　"Yes sir," Mr. Ewell said meekly. ...
　　Judge Taylor went on in tones of good will: "This the first timeyou've ever been in court? I don't recall ever seeing you here." Atthe witness's affirmative nod he continued, "Well, let's get somethingstraight. There will be no more audibly obscene speculations on anysubject from anybody in this courtroom as long as I'm sitting here. Doyou understand?"Mr. Ewell nodded, but I don't think he did. Judge Taylor sighedand said, "All right, Mr. Gilmer?""Thank you, sir. Mr. Ewell, would you tell us in your own words whathappened on the evening of November twenty-first, please?"Jem grinned and pushed his hair back. Just-in-your-own words was Mr.
泰勒法官用善意的语气继续说道：“这是你第一次出庭？我不记得在这里见过你。”证人点头表示同意，泰勒法官继续说道：“好吧，我们把事情说清楚。只要我还坐在这里，这间法庭上的任何人都不许再对任何问题进行任何粗俗的猜测。明白了吗？”尤厄尔先生点了点头，但我认为他并没有点头。泰勒法官叹了口气，说：“好了，吉尔默先生？”“谢谢您，先生。尤厄尔先生，请您用您自己的话告诉我们11月21日晚上发生的事情，好吗？”杰姆咧嘴一笑，把头发往后撩。“用您自己的话来说”是……
　　Gilmer's trademark. We often wondered who else's words Mr. Gilmerwas afraid his witness might employ.
吉尔默的商标。我们常常想，吉尔默先生还担心他的证人会引用谁的话语。
　　"Well, the night of November twenty-one I was comin' in from thewoods with a load o'kindlin' and just as I got to the fence I heardMayella screamin' like a stuck hog inside the house-"Here Judge Taylor glanced sharply at the witness and must havedecided his speculations devoid of evil intent, for he subsidedsleepily.
“嗯，十一月二十一日晚上，我拿着一堆引火物从树林里回来，我刚走到篱笆边就听到马耶拉在屋里像一头被困住的猪一样尖叫——”说到这里，泰勒法官狠狠地看了证人一眼，肯定认定他的猜测没有恶意，因为他睡眼惺忪地睡着了。
　　"What time was it, Mr. Ewell?""Just 'fore sundown. Well, I was sayin' Mayella was screamin' fit tobeat Jesus-" another glance from the bench silenced Mr. Ewell.
“埃威尔先生，现在几点了？” “就在日落之前。嗯，我是说梅耶拉尖叫得比耶稣还厉害——”长凳上又瞥了一眼，埃威尔先生便安静下来了。
　　"Yes? She was screaming?" said Mr. Gilmer.
“什么事？她尖叫了？”吉尔默先生问。
　　Mr. Ewell looked confusedly at the judge. "Well, Mayella was raisin'
尤厄尔先生一脸茫然地看着法官。“嗯，梅耶拉正在……
　　this holy racket so I dropped m'load and run as fast as I could butI run into th' fence, but when I got distangled I run up to th' windowand I seen-" Mr. Ewell's face grew scarlet. He stood up and pointedhis finger at Tom Robinson. "-I seen that black nigger yonderruttin' on my Mayella!"So serene was Judge Taylor's court, that he had few occasions to usehis gavel, but he hammered fully five minutes. Atticus was on his feetat the bench saying something to him, Mr. Heck Tate as first officerof the county stood in the middle aisle quelling the packed courtroom.
这该死的喧闹声，我赶紧扔下东西，拼命地跑，却撞到了篱笆，不过被绊倒后，我跑到窗边，看到——”尤厄尔先生的脸涨得通红。他站起来，指着汤姆·鲁宾逊。“——我看到那边那个黑鬼在我的马耶拉庄园里胡闹！”泰勒法官的法庭如此平静，他几乎没有机会使用法槌，但他还是敲了足足五分钟。阿蒂克斯在法官席上站起来，跟他说了些什么。县首席法官赫克·泰特先生站在法庭中间的过道里，安抚着挤满人的法庭。
　　Behind us, there was an angry muffled groan from the colored people.
在我们身后，传来有色人种愤怒的低沉呻吟声。
　　Reverend Sykes leaned across Dill and me, pulling at Jem's elbow.
赛克斯牧师俯身越过迪尔和我，拉着杰姆的胳膊肘。
　　"Mr. Jem," he said, "you better take Miss Jean Louise home. Mr. Jem,you hear me?"Jem turned his head. "Scout, go home. Dill, you'n'Scout go home.""You gotta make me first," I said, remembering Atticus's blesseddictum.
“杰姆先生，”他说，“你最好把琼·路易丝小姐送回家。杰姆先生，你听见了吗？”杰姆转过头。“斯库特，回家。迪尔，你和斯库特也回家。”“你得先让我回家，”我说道，想起了阿蒂克斯那句神圣的名言。
　　Jem scowled furiously at me, then said to Reverend Sykes, "I thinkit's okay, Reverend, she doesn't understand it."I was mortally offended. "I most certainly do, I c'n understandanything you can.""Aw hush. She doesn't understand it, Reverend, she ain't nine yet."Reverend Sykes's black eyes were anxious. "Mr. Finch know you allare here? This ain't fit for Miss Jean Louise or you boys either."Jem shook his head. "He can't see us this far away. It's allright, Reverend."I knew Jem would win, because I knew nothing could make him leavenow. Dill and I were safe, for a while: Atticus could see us fromwhere he was, if he looked.
杰姆怒视着我，然后对赛克斯牧师说：“牧师，我觉得没关系，她不明白。”我气得要死。“我当然明白，你能理解的我都能理解。”“哦，嘘。她不明白，牧师，她还没满九岁呢。”赛克斯牧师的黑眼睛里充满了焦虑。“芬奇先生知道你们在这里吗？这地方不适合琼·路易丝小姐，也不适合你们这些男孩。”杰姆摇了摇头。“他离我们这么远，他看不到我们。没关系，牧师。”我知道杰姆会赢，因为我知道现在什么也阻止不了他。迪尔和我暂时安全了：只要阿蒂克斯往前看，他就能从他所在的地方看到我们。
　　As Judge Taylor banged his gavel, Mr. Ewell was sitting smugly inthe witness chair, surveying his handiwork. With one phrase he hadturned happy picknickers into a sulky, tense, murmuring crowd, beingslowly hypnotized by gavel taps lessening in intensity until theonly sound in the courtroom was a dim pink-pink-pink: the judgemight have been rapping the bench with a pencil.
泰勒法官敲响法槌时，尤厄尔先生正得意洋洋地坐在证人席上，审视着自己的杰作。他只用一句话，就让原本兴高采烈的野餐者们变成了闷闷不乐、紧张不安、窃窃私语的人群。法槌的敲击声渐渐减弱，让法庭上只剩下一片朦胧的粉粉粉粉的声音：法官仿佛用铅笔敲击着法官席。
　　In possession of his court once more, Judge Taylor leaned back inhis chair. He looked suddenly weary; his age was showing, and Ithought about what Atticus had said- he and Mrs. Taylor didn't kissmuch- he must have been nearly seventy.
泰勒法官再次回到法庭，向后靠在椅子上。他突然显得有些疲惫；他的年纪已经显露出来了，我想起阿蒂克斯说过的话——他和泰勒太太很少接吻——他肯定快七十岁了。
　　"There has been a request," Judge Taylor said, "that thiscourtroom be cleared of spectators, or at least of women and children,a request that will be denied for the time being. People generally seewhat they look for, and hear what they listen for, and they have theright to subject their children to it, but I can assure you of onething: you will receive what you see and hear in silence or you willleave this courtroom, but you won't leave it until the whole boilingof you come before me on contempt charges. Mr. Ewell, you will keepyour testimony within the confines of Christian English usage, if thatis possible. Proceed, Mr. Gilmer."Mr. Ewell reminded me of a deaf-mute. I was sure he had neverheard the words Judge Taylor directed at him- his mouth struggledsilently with them- but their import registered on his face.
“有人提出请求，”泰勒法官说，“要求法庭内禁止旁听，至少禁止妇女和儿童。这项请求暂时不予受理。人们通常只看到他们想看的，听到他们想听的，他们有权让自己的孩子也经历这些。但我可以向你保证一件事：你要么默默地接受你所看到和听到的，要么离开这间法庭，但除非你因为藐视法庭的指控而怒不可遏地来到我面前，否则你都不能离开。尤厄尔先生，如果可能的话，你的证词必须符合基督教英语的规范。吉尔默先生，请讲。”尤厄尔先生让我想起一个聋哑人。我确信他从未听到泰勒法官对他说的话——他的嘴巴默默地挣扎着——但这些话的含义却清晰地写在他的脸上。
　　Smugness faded from it, replaced by a dogged earnestness that fooledJudge Taylor not at all: as long as Mr. Ewell was on the stand, thejudge kept his eyes on him, as if daring him to make a false move.
那种沾沾自喜的神情消失了，取而代之的是一种执着的认真，但泰勒法官却一点也骗不了他：只要尤厄尔先生站在证人席上，法官就一直盯着他，仿佛在看他敢不敢犯错。
　　Mr. Gilmer and Atticus exchanged glances. Atticus was sitting downagain, his fist rested on his cheek and we could not see his face. Mr.
吉尔默先生和阿蒂克斯交换了一下眼神。阿蒂克斯又坐了下来，拳头抵着脸颊，我们看不到他的脸。
　　Gilmer looked rather desperate. A question from Judge Taylor madehim relax: "Mr. Ewell, did you see the defendant having sexualintercourse with your daughter?""Yes, I did."The spectators were quiet, but the defendant said something. Atticuswhispered to him, and Tom Robinson was silent.
吉尔默看上去相当绝望。泰勒法官的提问让他放松下来：“尤厄尔先生，您看到被告与您的女儿发生性关系了吗？”“是的，我看到了。”旁观者一片寂静，但被告说了些什么。阿蒂克斯低声对他说了些什么，汤姆·罗宾逊也沉默了。
　　"You say you were at the window?" asked Mr. Gilmer.
“你说你在窗边？”吉尔默先生问道。
　　"Yes sir.""How far is it from the ground?""'bout three foot.""Did you have a clear view of the room?""Yes sir.""How did the room look?""Well, it was all slung about, like there was a fight.""What did you do when you saw the defendant?""Well, I run around the house to get in, but he run out the frontdoor just ahead of me. I sawed who he was, all right. I was toodistracted about Mayella to run after'im. I run in the house and shewas lyin' on the floor squallin'-""Then what did you do?""Why, I run for Tate quick as I could. I knowed who it was, allright, lived down yonder in that nigger-nest, passed the house everyday. Jedge, I've asked this county for fifteen years to clean out thatnest down yonder, they're dangerous to live around 'sides devaluin' myproperty-""Thank you, Mr. Ewell," said Mr. Gilmer hurriedly.
“是的，先生。”“离地面有多远？”“大约三英尺。”“你看清楚房间了吗？”“是的，先生。”“房间看起来怎么样？”“嗯，到处都是乱七八糟的东西，像是打架了一样。”“你看到被告后做了什么？”“嗯，我绕着房子跑进去，但他就在我前面从前门跑了出去。我一眼就看出他是谁。我当时太担心梅耶拉了，没追上去。我跑进屋里，她躺在地板上哭喊着——”“然后你做了什么？”“我赶紧跑去找泰特。我知道他是谁，没错，他就住在那边那个黑鬼窝里，每天都经过那栋房子。法官，我已经请求县里十五年了，要把那边的黑鬼窝清理干净，住在他们附近很危险，而且会贬值。”我的财产——““谢谢你，尤厄尔先生，”吉尔默先生急忙说道。
　　The witness made a hasty descent from the stand and ran smack intoAtticus, who had risen to question him. Judge Taylor permitted thecourt to laugh.
证人匆匆从证人席上走下来，撞上了起身质询的阿蒂克斯。泰勒法官任由全场哄笑。
　　"Just a minute, sir," said Atticus genially. "Could I ask you aquestion or two?"Mr. Ewell backed up into the witness chair, settled himself, andregarded Atticus with haughty suspicion, an expression common toMaycomb County witnesses when confronted by opposing counsel.
“等一下，先生，”阿蒂克斯和蔼地说，“我能问您一两个问题吗？”尤厄尔先生往证人席上退了退，稳住身子，用傲慢怀疑的目光看着阿蒂克斯，这是梅科姆县的证人面对对方律师时常见的表情。
　　"Mr. Ewell," Atticus began, "folks were doing a lot of runningthat night. Let's see, you say you ran to the house, you ran to thewindow, you ran inside, you ran to Mayella, you ran for Mr. Tate.
“尤厄尔先生，”阿蒂克斯开口道，“那天晚上人们都在四处奔跑。你说你跑到屋里，跑到窗边，跑进屋里，跑到梅耶拉那里，跑到泰特先生那里。”
　　Did you, during all this running, run for a doctor?""Wadn't no need to. I seen what happened.""But there's one thing I don't understand," said Atticus. "Weren'tyou concerned with Mayella's condition?""I most positively was," said Mr. Ewell. "I seen who done it.""No, I mean her physical condition. Did you not think the natureof her injuries warranted immediate medical attention?""What?""Didn't you think she should have had a doctor, immediately?"The witness said he never thought of it, he had never called adoctor to any of his'n in his life, and if he had it would have costhim five dollars. "That all?" he asked.
你一路跑，有没有去找医生？“没必要。我亲眼目睹了发生的一切。”“但有一件事我不明白，”阿蒂克斯说。“你难道不关心梅耶拉的情况吗？”“我当然关心，”尤厄尔先生说。“我亲眼目睹了是谁干的。”“不，我是说她的身体状况。你不认为她受伤的程度需要立即就医吗？”“什么？”“你不认为她应该立即就医吗？”证人说他从来没想过这个问题，他这辈子从来没有给任何人叫过医生，就算叫了，也要花五美元。“就这些？”他问。
　　"Not quite," said Atticus casually. "Mr. Ewell, you heard thesheriff's testimony, didn't you?""How's that?""You were in the courtroom when Mr. Heck Tate was on the stand,weren't you? You heard everything he said, didn't you?"Mr. Ewell considered the matter carefully, and seemed to decide thatthe question was safe.
“不完全是，”阿蒂克斯漫不经心地说。“尤厄尔先生，你听到了警长的证词，对吧？”“怎么回事？”“赫克·泰特先生出庭作证时，你在法庭上，对吧？他说的每句话你都听到了，对吧？”尤厄尔先生仔细考虑了一下，似乎觉得这个问题没什么问题。
　　"Yes," he said. ...
　　"Do you agree with his description of Mayella's injuries?""How's that?"Atticus looked around at Mr. Gilmer and smiled. Mr. Ewell seemeddetermined not to give the defense the time of day.
“你同意他对梅耶拉伤势的描述吗？”“怎么样？”阿蒂克斯环顾吉尔默先生，笑了笑。尤厄尔先生似乎决心不给辩方任何机会。
　　"Mr. Tate testified that her right eye was blackened, that she wasbeaten around the-""Oh yeah," said the witness. "I hold with everything Tate said.""You do?" asked Atticus mildly. "I just want to make sure." Hewent to the court reporter, said something, and the reporterentertained us for some minutes by reading Mr. Tate's testimony asif it were stock-market quotations: "…which eye her left oh yesthat'd make it her right it was her right eye Mr. Finch I remember nowshe was bunged." He flipped the page. "Up on that side of the faceSheriff please repeat what you said it was her right eye I said-""Thank you, Bert," said Atticus. "You heard it again, Mr. Ewell.
“泰特先生作证说，她的右眼被打青了，周围……” “哦，是的，”证人说。“我完全同意泰特说的话。” “你同意吗？”阿蒂克斯温和地问。“我只是想确认一下。” 他走到法庭书记员那里，说了些什么，书记员把泰特先生的证词像股票行情一样念了几分钟，逗得我们兴致勃勃：“……是她的哪只左眼，哦，是的，那就是她的右眼了，芬奇先生，我记得她被打了。” 他翻过一页。“警长，请您重复一下您说的，是她的右眼，我说……” “谢谢你，伯特，”阿蒂克斯说。“你又听明白了，尤厄尔先生。”
　　Do you have anything to add to it? Do you agree with the sheriff?""I holds with Tate. Her eye was blacked and she was mighty beat up."The little man seemed to have forgotten his previous humiliationfrom the bench. It was becoming evident that he thought Atticus aneasy match. He seemed to grow ruddy again; his chest swelled, and oncemore he was a red little rooster. I thought he'd burst his shirt atAtticus's next question:
你还有什么要补充的吗？你同意警长的说法吗？“我同意泰特的说法。她眼睛被打青了，而且伤得很重。”这个小个子男人似乎已经忘记了之前在法官席上遭受的羞辱。很明显，他认为阿蒂克斯很容易对付。他似乎又红了脸；他的胸膛鼓了起来，又像一只红色的小公鸡。我以为阿蒂克斯接下来的问题会让他气得撑破衬衫：
　　"Mr. Ewell, can you read and write?"Mr. Gilmer interrupted. "Objection," he said. "Can't see whatwitness's literacy has to do with the case, irrelevant'n'immaterial."Judge Taylor was about to speak but Atticus said, "Judge, ifyou'll allow the question plus another one you'll soon see.""All right, let's see," said Judge Taylor, "but make sure we see,Atticus. Overruled."Mr. Gilmer seemed as curious as the rest of us as to what bearingthe state of Mr. Ewell's education had on the case.
“尤厄尔先生，您识字吗？”吉尔默先生打断了他。“反对，”他说。“看不出证人的文化水平与本案有什么关系，无关紧要。”泰勒法官正要开口，阿蒂克斯却说：“法官，如果您允许我再问一个问题，您很快就能看到了。”“好吧，我们再看看，”泰勒法官说，“不过一定要让我们看到，阿蒂克斯。驳回。”吉尔默先生似乎和我们其他人一样好奇，尤厄尔先生的教育背景对本案有什么影响。
　　"I'll repeat the question," said Atticus. "Can you read and write?""I most positively can.""Will you write your name and show us?""I most positively will. How do you think I sign my relief checks?"Mr. Ewell was endearing himself to his fellow citizens. The whispersand chuckles below us probably had to do with what a card he was.
“我再问一遍，”阿蒂克斯说。“你会读会写吗？”“我当然会。”“你能写你的名字给我们看看吗？”“我当然会。你觉得我该怎么签救济金支票？”尤厄尔先生正在讨好他的同胞们。楼下的窃窃私语和轻笑声大概就是因为他的那副样子。
　　I was becoming nervous. Atticus seemed to know what he was doing-but it seemed to me that he'd gone frog-sticking without a light.
我开始紧张起来。阿蒂克斯似乎知道自己在做什么——但在我看来，他就像没开灯就去玩青蛙刺一样。
　　Never, never, never, on cross-examination ask a witness a question youdon't already know the answer to, was a tenet I absorbed with mybaby-food. Do it, and you'll often get an answer you don't want, ananswer that might wreck your case.
永远、永远、永远不要在交叉询问时向证人提出你不知道答案的问题，这是我从小就养成的信条。如果这样做，你通常会得到一个你不想要的答案，一个可能会毁掉你的案子的答案。
　　Atticus was reaching into the inside pocket of his coat. He drew outan envelope, then reached into his vest pocket and unclipped hisfountain pen. He moved leisurely, and had turned so that he was infull view of the jury. He unscrewed the fountain-pen cap and placed itgently on his table. He shook the pen a little, then handed it withthe envelope to the witness. "Would you write your name for us?" heasked. "Clearly now, so the jury can see you do it."Mr. Ewell wrote on the back of the envelope and looked upcomplacently to see Judge Taylor staring at him as if he were somefragrant gardenia in full bloom on the witness stand, to see Mr.
阿蒂克斯正把手伸进外套内袋。他掏出一个信封，然后伸手到背心口袋里，取下钢笔的夹子。他慢条斯理地移动身子，转过身，让陪审团完全看到他。他拧开钢笔帽，轻轻地放在桌子上。他轻轻摇晃了一下笔，然后连同信封一起递给了证人。“你能写上你的名字吗？”他问道。“现在写清楚，这样陪审团就能看到你了。”尤厄尔先生在信封背面写完字，得意地抬起头，看到泰勒法官正盯着他，仿佛他是证人席上一朵盛开的芬芳栀子花，看着他……
　　Gilmer half-sitting, half-standing at his table. The jury was watchinghim, one man was leaning forward with his hands over the railing.
吉尔默半坐半站地坐在桌旁。陪审团正注视着他，其中一人身子前倾，双手撑在栏杆上。
　　"What's so interestin'?" he asked.
“有什么有趣的事？”他问。
　　"You're left-handed, Mr. Ewell," said Judge Taylor. Mr. Ewell turnedangrily to the judge and said he didn't see what his being left-handedhad to do with it, that he was a Christ-fearing man and AtticusFinch was taking advantage of him. Tricking lawyers like Atticus Finchtook advantage of him all the time with their tricking ways. He hadtold them what happened, he'd say it again and again- which he did.
“你是左撇子，尤厄尔先生，”泰勒法官说。尤厄尔先生怒气冲冲地转向法官，说他不明白自己是左撇子跟这有什么关系，他是一个敬畏基督的人，只是阿蒂克斯·芬奇在利用他。像阿蒂克斯·芬奇这样的狡猾律师总是用他们狡猾的手段占他便宜。他已经告诉他们发生了什么事，他会一遍又一遍地重复——他确实这么做了。
　　Nothing Atticus asked him after that shook his story, that he'd lookedthrough the window, then ran the nigger off, then ran for the sheriff.
此后，阿蒂克斯无论问什么，都无法动摇他的故事：他先是透过窗户往外看，然后赶走了黑鬼，然后又跑去找警长。
　　Atticus finally dismissed him. ...
　　Mr. Gilmer asked him one more question. "About your writing withyour left hand, are you ambidextrous, Mr. Ewell?""I most positively am not, I can use one hand good as the other. Onehand good as the other," he added, glaring at the defense table.
吉尔默先生又问了他一个问题。“关于你用左手写字，你是双手都灵巧的吗，尤厄尔先生？”“我绝对不是，我一只手写字和另一只手一样好用。一只手和另一只手一样好用，”他补充道，怒视着辩方席。
　　Jem seemed to be having a quiet fit. He was pounding the balconyrail softly, and once he whispered, "We've got him."I didn't think so: Atticus was trying to show, it seemed to me, thatMr. Ewell could have beaten up Mayella. That much I could follow. Ifher right eye was blacked and she was beaten mostly on the rightside of the face, it would tend to show that a left-handed persondid it. Sherlock Holmes and Jem Finch would agree. But Tom Robinsoncould easily be left-handed, too. Like Mr. Heck Tate, I imagined aperson facing me, went through a swift mental pantomime, and concludedthat he might have held her with his right hand and pounded her withhis left. I looked down at him. His back was to us, but I could seehis broad shoulders and bull-thick neck. He could easily have done it.
杰姆似乎正悄悄地发脾气。他轻轻地捶打着阳台栏杆，然后低声说：“我们抓住他了。”我不这么认为：在我看来，阿蒂克斯是在试图证明尤厄尔先生可能打了梅耶拉。这一点我基本能理解。如果她的右眼被打青，而且大部分是右脸，那就说明是个左撇子干的。夏洛克·福尔摩斯和杰姆·芬奇都会同意这一点。但汤姆·鲁滨逊很可能也是左撇子。就像赫克·泰特先生一样，我想象着一个人面对着我，迅速地在心里默念了一通，最后得出结论，他可能用右手抓住梅耶拉，用左手猛击她。我低头看着他。他背对着我们，但我能看到他宽阔的肩膀和粗壮的脖子。他很可能就是这么做的。
　　I thought Jem was counting his chickens.
我以为杰姆正在打如意算盘。
　　18But someone was booming again.
18但是有人又开始兴高采烈了。
　　"Mayella Violet Ewell-!"A young girl walked to the witness stand. As she raised her hand andswore that the evidence she gave would be the truth, the wholetruth, and nothing but the truth so help her God, she seemed somehowfragile-looking, but when she sat facing us in the witness chair shebecame what she was, a thick-bodied girl accustomed to strenuouslabor.
“梅耶拉·维奥莱特·尤厄尔——！”一个年轻女孩走到证人席上。她举起手，发誓她提供的证据将是事实，全部事实，唯有事实，愿上帝保佑。她看起来似乎有些脆弱，但当她坐在证人席上面对我们时，她又恢复了原来的样子，一个习惯了繁重劳动的胖乎乎的女孩。
　　In Maycomb County, it was easy to tell when someone bathedregularly, as opposed to yearly lavations: Mr. Ewell had a scaldedlook; as if an overnight soaking had deprived him of protective layersof dirt, his skin appeared to be sensitive to the elements. Mayellalooked as if she tried to keep clean, and I was reminded of the row ofred geraniums in the Ewell yard.
在梅科姆县，很容易看出一个人是否经常洗澡，而不是每年洗一次澡：尤厄尔先生一脸烫伤的表情；仿佛一夜的浸泡让他身上的污垢保护层脱落，他的皮肤似乎对外界环境十分敏感。梅耶拉看起来似乎很努力保持清洁，这让我想起了尤厄尔家院子里那排红色的天竺葵。
　　Mr. Gilmer asked Mayella to tell the jury in her own words whathappened on the evening of November twenty-first of last year, just inher own words, please.
吉尔默先生要求马耶拉用她自己的话向陪审团讲述去年 11 月 21 日晚上发生的事情，请只用她自己的话。
　　Mayella sat silently. ...
　　"Where were you at dusk on that evening?" began Mr. Gilmerpatiently.
“那天傍晚时分你在哪儿？”吉尔默先生耐心地问道。
　　"On the porch.""Which porch?""Ain't but one, the front porch.""What were you doing on the porch?""Nothin'."Judge Taylor said, "Just tell us what happened. You can do that,can't you?"Mayella stared at him and burst into tears. She covered her mouthwith her hands and sobbed. Judge Taylor let her cry for a while,then he said, "That's enough now. Don't be 'fraid of anybody here,as long as you tell the truth. All this is strange to you, I know, butyou've nothing to be ashamed of and nothing to fear. What are youscared of?"Mayella said something behind her hands. "What was that?" askedthe judge.
“在门廊上。”“哪个门廊？”“只有一个，前门廊。”“你在门廊上干什么？”“什么也没做。”泰勒法官说：“就告诉我们发生了什么事。你能做到吗？”梅耶拉盯着他，突然哭了起来。她用手捂住嘴，呜咽起来。泰勒法官让她哭了一会儿，然后说：“够了。只要你说的是实话，就不要怕这里的任何人。我知道这一切对你来说都很陌生，但你没有什么可羞耻的，也没有什么可害怕的。你在怕什么？”梅耶拉用手捂着嘴说了些什么。“那是什么？”法官问。
　　"Him," she sobbed, pointing at Atticus.
“他，”她指着阿提克斯抽泣着说。
　　"Mr. Finch?"She nodded vigorously, saying, "Don't want him doin' me like he donePapa, tryin' to make him out lefthanded…"Judge Taylor scratched his thick white hair. It was plain that hehad never been confronted with a problem of this kind. "How old areyou?" he asked.
“芬奇先生？”她用力地点点头，说道：“我可不想让他像对待爸爸那样对待我，还让我误以为他是左撇子……”泰勒法官挠了挠浓密的白发。显然，他从未遇到过这种问题。“你多大了？”他问道。
　　"Nineteen-and-a-half," Mayella said. ...
　　Judge Taylor cleared his throat and tried unsuccessfully to speak insoothing tones. "Mr. Finch has no idea of scaring you," he growled,"and if he did, I'm here to stop him. That's one thing I'm sittingup here for. Now you're a big girl, so you just sit up straight andtell the- tell us what happened to you. You can do that, can't you?"I whispered to Jem, "Has she got good sense?"Jem was squinting down at the witness stand. "Can't tell yet," hesaid. "She's got enough sense to get the judge sorry for her, butshe might be just- oh, I don't know."Mollified, Mayella gave Atticus a final terrified glance and said toMr. Gilmer, "Well sir, I was on the porch and- and he came alongand, you see, there was this old chiffarobe in the yard Papa'd broughtin to chop up for kindlin'- Papa told me to do it while he was offin the woods but I wadn't feelin' strong enough then, so he came by-""Who is 'he'?"Mayella pointed to Tom Robinson. "I'll have to ask you to be morespecific, please," said Mr. Gilmer. "The reporter can't put downgestures very well.""That'n yonder," she said. "Robinson.""Then what happened?""I said come here, nigger, and bust up this chiffarobe for me, Igotta nickel for you. He coulda done it easy enough, he could. So hecome in the yard an' I went in the house to get him the nickel and Iturned around an 'fore I knew it he was on me. Just run up behindme, he did. He got me round the neck, cussin' me an' sayin' dirt- Ifought'n'hollered, but he had me round the neck. He hit me agin an'
泰勒法官清了清嗓子，试图用安抚的语气说话，却徒劳无功。“芬奇先生没想吓唬你，”他咆哮道，“就算他想，我也会阻止他的。我坐在这儿就是为了这个。你现在是个大姑娘了，所以你只要坐直，告诉我们——告诉我们你发生了什么事。你能做到，对吧？”我低声问杰姆：“她还算清醒吗？”杰姆眯着眼睛看着证人席。“现在还不能确定，”他说。“她有足够的清醒让法官为她感到难过，但她可能只是——哦，我不知道。”梅耶拉平静下来，最后惊恐地看了阿蒂克斯一眼，然后对阿蒂克斯先生说。吉尔默说：“先生，我当时在门廊上，然后——然后他过来了，你瞧，院子里有个旧大衣柜，是爸爸拿来劈柴的——爸爸让他趁他去树林的时候劈柴，但我当时没力气，所以他就过来了——”“‘他’是谁？”梅耶拉指着汤姆·罗宾逊。“我得请你说得更具体些，”吉尔默先生说。“记者不太会记手势。”“就是那边，”她说。 “罗宾逊。”“然后发生了什么事？”“我说，过来，黑鬼，帮我把这个大衣柜砸碎，我得给你五分钱。他很容易就能做到，他可以。于是他来到院子里，我进屋去给他拿五分钱，我一转身，还没等我反应过来，他就冲到我身后。他掐住我的脖子，骂我，说脏话——我打了起来，大喊大叫，但他掐住了我的脖子。他又打了我一下，然后……
　　agin-"Mr. Gilmer waited for Mayella to collect herself: she had twistedher handkerchief into a sweaty rope; when she opened it to wipe herface it was a mass of creases from her hot hands. She waited for Mr.
又一次——”吉尔默先生等着马耶拉镇定下来：她已经把手帕搓成了一条汗湿的绳子；当她打开手帕擦脸时，只见她热手的痕迹已是千疮百孔。她等着吉尔默先生。
　　Gilmer to ask another question, but when he didn't, she said, "-hechunked me on the floor an' choked me'n took advantage of me.""Did you scream?" asked Mr. Gilmer. "Did you scream and fight back?""Reckon I did, hollered for all I was worth, kicked and holleredloud as I could.""Then what happened?""I don't remember too good, but next thing I knew Papa was in theroom a'standing over me hollerin' who done it, who done it? Then Isorta fainted an' the next thing I knew Mr. Tate was pullin' me upoffa the floor and leadin' me to the water bucket."Apparently Mayella's recital had given her confidence, but it wasnot her father's brash kind: there was something stealthy abouthers, like a steady-eyed cat with a twitchy tail.
吉尔默先生想再问一个问题，但他没问，于是她说：“——他把我按在地上，掐住我的脖子，然后占我的便宜。”“你尖叫了吗？”吉尔默先生问。“你尖叫反击了吗？”“我想我喊了，拼命地叫喊，又踢又喊，拼命地喊。”“然后发生了什么事？”“我记不太清楚了，但接下来我知道爸爸就在房间里，站在我面前，大声喊叫，是谁干的，是谁干的？然后我几乎晕过去了，接下来我知道泰特先生把我从地上拉起来，领到水桶边。”显然，梅耶拉的讲述给了她信心，但不像她父亲那样鲁莽：她有一种鬼鬼祟祟的感觉，就像一只目光坚定、尾巴抽搐的猫。
　　"You say you fought him off as hard as you could? Fought him toothand nail?" asked Mr. Gilmer.
“你说你用尽全力把他打退了？拼尽全力跟他搏斗？”吉尔默先生问道。
　　"I positively did," Mayella echoed her father.
“我确实这么做了，”梅耶拉附和着她父亲的话。
　　"You are positive that he took full advantage of you?"Mayella's face contorted, and I was afraid that she would cry again.
“你确定他充分利用了你？”马耶拉的脸扭曲了，我担心她会再次哭泣。
　　Instead, she said, "He done what he was after."Mr. Gilmer called attention to the hot day by wiping his head withhis hand. "That's all for the time being," he said pleasantly, "butyou stay there. I expect big bad Mr. Finch has some questions to askyou.""State will not prejudice the witness against counsel for thedefense," murmured Judge Taylor primly, "at least not at this time."Atticus got up grinning but instead of walking to the witness stand,he opened his coat and hooked his thumbs in his vest, then he walkedslowly across the room to the windows. He looked out, but didn'tseem especially interested in what he saw, then he turned and strolledback to the witness stand. From long years of experience, I could tellhe was trying to come to a decision about something.
她却说：“他做了他想做的事。”吉尔默先生用手擦了擦头，提醒大家注意天气炎热。“暂时就这些，”他和蔼地说，“不过你还是待在那儿吧。我估计芬奇先生那个大坏蛋会问你一些问题。”“控方不会让证人对辩方律师产生偏见，”泰勒法官一本正经地低声说道，“至少现在不会。”阿蒂克斯咧嘴一笑站了起来，但他没有走向证人席，而是解开外套，拇指勾在背心上，然后慢慢地穿过房间，走到窗边。他向外望了一眼，但似乎对眼前的景象并不特别感兴趣，然后转身走回证人席。凭借多年的经验，我看得出他正在努力做出决定。
　　"Miss Mayella," he said, smiling, "I won't try to scare you for awhile, not yet. Let's just get acquainted. How old are you?""Said I was nineteen, said it to the judge yonder." Mayella jerkedher head resentfully at the bench.
“马耶拉小姐，”他笑着说，“我暂时不会吓唬你，现在还不会。我们先认识一下吧。你多大了？”“我说我十九岁，跟那边的法官说过。”马耶拉愤愤不平地朝法官席扬了扬头。
　　"So you did, so you did, ma'am. You'll have to bear with me, MissMayella, I'm getting along and can't remember as well as I used to.
“您说得对，您说得对，夫人。您得忍耐一下，马耶拉小姐，我年纪大了，记性不如以前了。”
　　I might ask you things you've already said before, but you'll giveme an answer, won't you? Good."I could see nothing in Mayella's expression to justify Atticus'sassumption that he had secured her wholehearted cooperation. She waslooking at him furiously.
我可能会问你一些你以前说过的话，但你会回答我，对吧？很好。”我从梅耶拉的表情中看不出任何迹象，足以证明阿蒂克斯的假设，即他已经获得了她全心全意的合作。她怒视着他。
　　"Won't answer a word you say long as you keep on mockin' me," shesaid.
“只要你继续嘲笑我，我就不会回答你说的任何一个字，”她说。
　　"Ma'am?" asked Atticus, startled.
“夫人？”阿蒂克斯吃惊地问道。
　　"Long's you keep on makin' fun o'me."Judge Taylor said, "Mr. Finch is not making fun of you. What's thematter with you?"Mayella looked from under lowered eyelids at Atticus, but she saidto the judge: "Long's he keeps on callin' me ma'am an sayin' MissMayella. I don't hafta take his sass, I ain't called upon to take it."Atticus resumed his stroll to the windows and let Judge Taylorhandle this one. Judge Taylor was not the kind of figure that everevoked pity, but I did feel a pang for him as he tried to explain.
“你老是拿我开玩笑。”泰勒法官说：“芬奇先生没拿你开玩笑。你怎么了？”梅耶拉低垂着眼皮看着阿蒂克斯，然后对法官说：“他老是叫我夫人，还说我是梅耶拉小姐。我没必要忍受他的无礼，我也没义务忍受。”阿蒂克斯继续走到窗边，让泰勒法官处理这件事。泰勒法官不是那种让人同情的人，但当他试图解释的时候，我的确为他感到一阵心痛。
　　"That's just Mr. Finch's way," he told Mayella. "We've done businessin this court for years and years, and Mr. Finch is always courteousto everybody. He's not trying to mock you, he's trying to be polite.
“芬奇先生就是这么一回事，”他告诉马耶拉。“我们在这个法庭上做生意已经很多年了，芬奇先生对每个人都彬彬有礼。他不是想嘲笑你，他是想保持礼貌。”
　　That's just his way."The judge leaned back. "Atticus, let's get on with theseproceedings, and let the record show that the witness has not beensassed, her views to the contrary."I wondered if anybody had ever called her "ma'am," or "Miss Mayella"in her life; probably not, as she took offense to routine courtesy.
“这就是他的行事风格。”法官往后靠去。“阿蒂克斯，我们继续审理案件吧，让记录证明证人没有受到攻击，她的观点恰恰相反。”我好奇在她一生中是否有人叫过她“夫人”或“马耶拉小姐”；可能没有，因为她对例行的礼节感到不快。
　　What on earth was her life like? I soon found out.
她的生活究竟是怎样的呢？我很快就知道了。
　　"You say you're nineteen," Atticus resumed. "How many sisters andbrothers have you?" He walked from the windows back to the stand.
“你说你十九岁，”阿蒂克斯继续问道。“你有几个兄弟姐妹？”他从窗户走回证人席。
　　"Seb'm," she said, and I wondered if they were all like the specimenI had seen the first day I started to school.
“Seb'm，”她说道，我想知道他们是否都像我上学第一天见到的那个样本。
　　"You the eldest? The oldest?""Yes.""How long has your mother been dead?""Don't know- long time.""Did you ever go to school?""Read'n'write good as Papa yonder."Mayella sounded like a Mr. Jingle in a book I had been reading.
“你是老大？最大的那个？”“是的。”“你母亲去世多久了？”“不知道——很久了。”“你上过学吗？”“读得和写得都和那边的爸爸一样好。”梅耶拉听起来就像我读过的一本书里的金格尔先生。
　　"How long did you go to school?""Two year- three year- dunno."Slowly but surely I began to see the pattern of Atticus's questions:
“你上了多久的学？”“两年——三年——不知道。”我慢慢地但肯定地开始看出阿蒂克斯提问的规律：
　　from questions that Mr. Gilmer did not deem sufficiently irrelevant orimmaterial to object to, Atticus was quietly building up before thejury a picture of the Ewells' home life. The jury learned thefollowing things: their relief check was far from enough to feed thefamily, and there was strong suspicion that Papa drank it up anyway-he sometimes went off in the swamp for days and came home sick; theweather was seldom cold enough to require shoes, but when it was,you could make dandy ones from strips of old tires; the familyhauled its water in buckets from a spring that ran out at one end ofthe dump- they kept the surrounding area clear of trash- and it waseverybody for himself as far as keeping clean went: if you wanted towash you hauled your own water; the younger children had perpetualcolds and suffered from chronic ground-itch; there was a lady who camearound sometimes and asked Mayella why she didn't stay in school-she wrote down the answer; with two members of the family readingand writing, there was no need for the rest of them to learn- Papaneeded them at home.
阿蒂克斯通过吉尔默先生认为并非无关紧要或不值得反对的问题，悄悄地向陪审团描绘了尤厄尔一家的家庭生活。陪审团了解到以下情况：他们的救济金远远不够养活一家人，而且人们强烈怀疑爸爸把救济金都喝光了——他有时会去沼泽地里待上好几天，回家后就生病了；天气很少冷到需要穿鞋，但冷的时候，可以用旧轮胎的破布做一双漂亮的鞋；这家人用桶从垃圾场一端流出的泉水里打水——他们保持周围环境清洁——在保持清洁方面，每个人都自顾自：如果你想洗澡，就自己打水；小孩子们总是感冒，还患有慢性地痒病；有一位女士有时会过来问梅耶拉为什么不继续上学——她把答案记了下来；如果家里有两个成员会读书写字，那么其他人就没有必要学习了——爸爸在家里需要他们。
　　"Miss Mayella," said Atticus, in spite of himself, "anineteen-year-old girl like you must have friends. Who are yourfriends?"The witness frowned as if puzzled. "Friends?""Yes, don't you know anyone near your age, or older, or younger?
“梅耶拉小姐，”阿蒂克斯不由自主地说，“像你这样十九岁的女孩子肯定有朋友。你的朋友是谁？”证人皱起眉头，似乎很困惑。“朋友？”“是的，你不认识跟你年龄相仿、比你大或比你小的人吗？”
　　Boys and girls? Just ordinary friends?"Mayella's hostility, which had subsided to grudging neutrality,flared again. "You makin' fun o'me agin, Mr. Finch?"Atticus let her question answer his.
“男孩女孩？只是普通朋友？”梅耶拉的敌意原本已经平息，勉强保持中立，现在却再次爆发。“芬奇先生，你又在取笑我吗？”阿蒂克斯让她的问题回答他。
　　"Do you love your father, Miss Mayella?" was his next.
他接着问道：“马耶拉小姐，你爱你的父亲吗？”
　　"Love him, whatcha mean?""I mean, is he good to you, is he easy to get along with?""He does tollable, 'cept when-""Except when?"Mayella looked at her father, who was sitting with his chairtipped against the railing. He sat up straight and waited for her toanswer.
“爱他，你什么意思？”“我是说，他对你好吗？他好相处吗？”“他确实好相处，除了……”“除了……”梅耶拉看着父亲，他正坐在那里，椅子靠在栏杆上。他直起身子，等着她回答。
　　"Except when nothin'," said Mayella. "I said he does tollable."Mr. Ewell leaned back again.
“除非没事的时候，”马耶拉说，“我说他确实可以收费。”尤厄尔先生又往后靠了靠。
　　"Except when he's drinking?" asked Atticus so gently that Mayellanodded.
“除了喝酒的时候？”阿蒂克斯温柔地问道，梅耶拉听后点了点头。
　　"Does he ever go after you?""How you mean?""When he's- riled, has he ever beaten you?"Mayella looked around, down at the court reporter, up at thejudge. "Answer the question, Miss Mayella," said Judge Taylor.
“他追过你吗？”“你什么意思？”“他生气的时候打过你吗？”梅耶拉环顾四周，低头看着书记员，又抬头看着法官。“回答问题，梅耶拉小姐，”泰勒法官说。
　　"My paw's never touched a hair o'my head in my life," she declaredfirmly. "He never touched me."Atticus's glasses had slipped a little, and he pushed them up on hisnose. "We've had a good visit, Miss Mayella, and now I guess we'dbetter get to the case. You say you asked Tom Robinson to come chop upa- what was it?""A chiffarobe, a old dresser full of drawers on one side.""Was Tom Robinson well known to you?""Whaddya mean?""I mean did you know who he was, where he lived?"Mayella nodded. "I knowed who he was, he passed the house everyday.""Was this the first time you asked him to come inside the fence?"Mayella jumped slightly at the question. Atticus was making his slowpilgrimage to the windows, as he had been doing: he would ask aquestion, then look out, waiting for an answer. He did not see herinvoluntary jump, but it seemed to me that he knew she had moved. Heturned around and raised his eyebrows. "Was-" he began again.
“我这辈子都没碰过我一根头发，”她坚定地说道。“他从来没碰过我。”阿蒂克斯的眼镜滑了一点，他推了推鼻子。“梅耶拉小姐，我们聊得很愉快，现在我想我们最好开始谈案子了。你说你叫汤姆·鲁宾逊来砍一个——是什么？”“一个大立柜，一个一边满是抽屉的旧梳妆台。”“你认识汤姆·鲁宾逊吗？”“你什么意思？”“我是说你知道他是谁，住在哪里吗？”梅耶拉点点头。“我知道他是谁，他每天都会经过这栋房子。”“这是你第一次叫他进篱笆吗？”梅耶拉听到这个问题，微微一愣。阿蒂克斯正像往常一样，慢慢地朝窗户走去：他先问个问题，然后往外张望，等待答案。他没看到她不由自主地跳了起来，但我感觉他似乎知道她动了。他转过身，扬了扬眉毛。“是——”他又开口说道。
　　"Yes it was.""Didn't you ever ask him to come inside the fence before?"She was prepared now. "I did not, I certainly did not.""One did not's enough," said Atticus serenely. "You never askedhim to do odd jobs for you before?""I mighta," conceded Mayella. "There was several niggers around.""Can you remember any other occasions?""No.""All right, now to what happened. You said Tom Robinson was behindyou in the room when you turned around, that right?""Yes.""You said he 'got you around the neck cussing and saying dirt'- isthat right?""'t's right."Atticus's memory had suddenly become accurate. "You say 'he caughtme and choked me and took advantage of me'- is that right?""That's what I said.""Do you remember him beating you about the face?"The witness hesitated.
“是的。”“你以前没叫他进围栏里吗？”她这下准备好了。“我没有，我绝对没有。”“一次没叫就够了，”阿蒂克斯平静地说。“你以前没叫他给你打过零工吗？”“我可能叫过，”梅耶拉承认道。“当时周围有几个黑鬼。”“你还记得其他情况吗？”“没有。”“好了，现在说说发生了什么事。你说你转身的时候，汤姆·鲁宾逊就在你身后，对吗？”“是的。”“你说他‘掐住你的脖子，骂你脏话’——对吗？”“没错。”阿蒂克斯的记忆突然变得准确起来。“你说‘他抓住我，掐住我的脖子，还欺负我’——对吗？”“我就是这么说的。”“你记得他打过你的脸吗？”证人犹豫了一下。
　　"You seem sure enough that he choked you. All this time you werefighting back, remember? You 'kicked and hollered as loud as youcould.' Do you remember him beating you about the face?"Mayella was silent. She seemed to be trying to get something clearto herself. I thought for a moment she was doing Mr. Heck Tate's andmy trick of pretending there was a person in front of us. Sheglanced at Mr. Gilmer.
“你好像很确定他掐了你的脖子。你一直在反抗，记得吗？你‘又踢又叫，拼命地喊’。你还记得他打你的脸吗？”梅耶拉沉默不语。她似乎想弄清楚什么。我一时还以为她在学我和赫克·泰特先生的把戏，假装我们面前有人。她瞥了一眼吉尔默先生。
　　"It's an easy question, Miss Mayella, so I'll try again. Do youremember him beating you about the face?" Atticus's voice had lost itscomfortableness; he was speaking in his arid, detached professionalvoice. "Do you remember him beating you about the face?""No, I don't recollect if he hit me. I mean yes I do, he hit me.""Was your last sentence your answer?""Huh? Yes, he hit- I just don't remember, I just don't remember…it all happened so quick."Judge Taylor looked sternly at Mayella. "Don't you cry, youngwoman-" he began, but Atticus said, "Let her cry if she wants to,Judge. We've got all the time in the world."Mayella sniffed wrathfully and looked at Atticus. "I'll answer anyquestion you got- get me up here an' mock me, will you? I'll answerany question you got-""That's fine," said Atticus. "There're only a few more. MissMayella, not to be tedious, you've testified that the defendant hityou, grabbed you around the neck, choked you, and took advantage ofyou. I want you to be sure you have the right man. Will you identifythe man who raped you?""I will, that's him right yonder."Atticus turned to the defendant. "Tom, stand up. Let Miss Mayellahave a good long look at you. Is this the man, Miss Mayella?"Tom Robinson's powerful shoulders rippled under his thin shirt. Herose to his feet and stood with his right hand on the back of hischair. He looked oddly off balance, but it was not from the way he wasstanding. His left arm was fully twelve inches shorter than his right,and hung dead at his side. It ended in a small shriveled hand, andfrom as far away as the balcony I could see that it was no use to him.
“这个问题很简单，梅耶拉小姐，我再问一遍。你记得他打过你的脸吗？”阿蒂克斯的声音失去了那种轻松自在的感觉，他用的是那种干巴巴、冷漠冷漠的职业腔调。“你记得他打过你的脸吗？”“不，我不记得他有没有打我。我的意思是，我记得，他打过我。”“你最后一句话就是你的答案吗？”“啊？是的，他打了——我只是不记得了，我只是不记得了……一切都发生得太快了。”泰勒法官严厉地看着梅耶拉。“别哭，小姑娘——”他刚开口，阿蒂克斯就说：“法官，她想哭就让她哭吧。我们有的是时间。”梅耶拉愤怒地吸了吸鼻子，看向阿蒂克斯。 “我会回答你的任何问题——把我弄上来嘲笑我，好吗？我会回答你的任何问题——”“好的，”阿蒂克斯说。“只剩几个问题了。梅耶拉小姐，我不想说得那么冗长，你已经作证说被告打了你，掐了你的脖子，勒了你的脖子，还占了你的便宜。我要你确定你找对了人。你能指认强奸你的人吗？”“我会的，就是那边的那个人。”阿蒂克斯转向被告。“汤姆，站起来。让梅耶拉小姐好好看看你。就是这个人吗，梅耶拉小姐？”汤姆·罗宾逊单薄的衬衫下，结实的肩膀微微耸起。他站起身，右手扶着椅背。他看起来有点不平衡，但从他站立的姿势来看，这倒不是问题。他的左臂比右臂短了足足十二英寸，垂在身体两侧。它的末端是一只干瘪的小手，从阳台远处我就能看出，这对他来说毫无用处。
　　"Scout," breathed Jem. "Scout, look! Reverend, he's crippled!"Reverend Sykes leaned across me and whispered to Jem. "He got itcaught in a cotton gin, caught it in Mr. Dolphus Raymond's cottongin when he was a boy… like to bled to death… tore all the musclesloose from his bones-"Atticus said, "Is this the man who raped you?""It most certainly is."Atticus's next question was one word long. "How?"Mayella was raging. "I don't know how he done it, but he done it-I said it all happened so fast I-""Now let's consider this calmly-" began Atticus, but Mr. Gilmerinterrupted with an objection: he was not irrelevant or immaterial,but Atticus was browbeating the witness.
“斯库特，”杰姆喘着气说。“斯库特，看！牧师，他残废了！”赛克斯牧师俯身越过我，低声对杰姆说。“他被轧棉机缠住了，小时候被多尔夫斯·雷蒙德先生的轧棉机缠住了……就像流血致死一样……骨头上的肌肉都撕裂了——”阿蒂克斯说，“就是这个人强奸了你吗？”“肯定是。”阿蒂克斯的下一个问题只有一个词。“怎么？”梅耶拉怒不可遏。“我不知道他是怎么做到的，但他确实做到了——我说一切都发生得太快了，我——”“现在让我们冷静地考虑一下——”阿蒂克斯刚开口，吉尔默先生就打断了他，提出了一个反对意见：他并非无关紧要，而是在恐吓证人。
　　Judge Taylor laughed outright. "Oh sit down, Horace, he's doingnothing of the sort. If anything, the witness's browbeating Atticus."Judge Taylor was the only person in the courtroom who laughed.
泰勒法官放声大笑。“哦，霍勒斯，坐下，他根本没干这事。要说有什么，那证人不过是在恐吓阿蒂克斯罢了。”泰勒法官是法庭上唯一一个笑的人。
　　Even the babies were still, and I suddenly wondered if they had beensmothered at their mothers' breasts.
甚至连婴儿都一动不动，我突然想知道他们是否被母亲的乳房窒息了。
　　"Now," said Atticus, "Miss Mayella, you've testified that thedefendant choked and beat you- you didn't say that he sneaked upbehind you and knocked you cold, but you turned around and there hewas-" Atticus was back behind his table, and he emphasized his wordsby tapping his knuckles on it. "-do you wish to reconsider any of yourtestimony?""You want me to say something that didn't happen?""No ma'am, I want you to say something that did happen. Tell us oncemore, please, what happened?""I told'ja what happened.""You testified that you turned around and there he was. He chokedyou then?""Yes.""Then he released your throat and hit you?""I said he did.""He blacked your left eye with his right fist?""I ducked and it- it glanced, that's what it did. I ducked and itglanced off." Mayella had finally seen the light.
“好了，”阿蒂克斯说，“梅耶拉小姐，你已经作证说被告掐了你的脖子并打了你——你没说他偷偷溜到你身后把你打晕，而是说你转过身，然后他就在那儿——”阿蒂克斯回到桌子后面，用指关节敲着桌子强调自己的话。“——你想重新考虑你的证词吗？”“你想让我说一些没发生过的事？”“不，女士，我想让你说一些确实发生过的事。请再说一遍，发生了什么事？”“我告诉你发生了什么事。”“你作证说你转过身，然后他就在那儿。然后他掐住了你的脖子？”“是的。”“然后他松开你的喉咙打了你？”“我说他打了你。”“他用右拳打肿了你的左眼？”“我躲开了，它——它瞥了一眼，就是这样。我躲开了，它就闪开了。”梅耶拉终于明白了。
　　"You're becoming suddenly clear on this point. A while ago youcouldn't remember too well, could you?""I said he hit me.""All right. He choked you, he hit you, then he raped you, thatright?""It most certainly is.""You're a strong girl, what were you doing all the time, juststanding there?""I told'ja I hollered'n'kicked'n'fought-"Atticus reached up and took off his glasses, turned his good righteye to the witness, and rained questions on her. Judge Taylor said,"One question at a time, Atticus. Give the witness a chance toanswer.""All right, why didn't you run?""I tried…""Tried to? What kept you from it?""I- he slung me down. That's what he did, he slung me down'n goton top of me.""You were screaming all this time?""I certainly was.""Then why didn't the other children hear you? Where were they? Atthe dump?""Where were they?"No answer.
“你突然明白了这一点。刚才你记不太清楚了，对吧？”“我说他打我。”“好吧。他掐你，打你，然后强奸你，对吧？”“肯定是。”“你是个坚强的女孩，你刚才干什么，就站在那里？”“我告诉你，我又喊又踢又打——”阿蒂克斯伸手摘下眼镜，把没事的右眼转向证人，对她连珠炮似地问了一大堆问题。泰勒法官说：“阿蒂克斯，一个问题一个问题。给证人一个回答的机会。”“好吧，你为什么不跑？”“我试过了……”“试过了？是什么阻止了你？”“我——他把我摔下去了。他就是这么做的，他把我摔下去，然后压在我身上。”“你一直在尖叫？”“我当然在尖叫。”“那为什么其他孩子没听到你说话？他们在哪儿？在垃圾场吗？”“他们在哪儿？”没有回答。
　　"Why didn't your screams make them come running? The dump's closerthan the woods, isn't it?"No answer.
“为什么你的尖叫声没能让他们跑过来？垃圾场比树林更近，不是吗？” 没有回答。
　　"Or didn't you scream until you saw your father in the window? Youdidn't think to scream until then, did you?"No answer.
“或者直到你在窗户里看到你父亲你才尖叫？直到那时你才想到要尖叫，是吗？”没有回答。
　　"Did you scream first at your father instead of at Tom Robinson? Wasthat it?"No answer.
“你是先对你父亲大喊大叫，而不是对汤姆·鲁宾逊大喊大叫吗？是那样吗？”没有回答。
　　"Who beat you up? Tom Robinson or your father?"No answer.
“谁打你了？汤姆·鲁宾逊还是你父亲？”没有回答。
　　"What did your father see in the window, the crime of rape or thebest defense to it? Why don't you tell the truth, child, didn't BobEwell beat you up?"When Atticus turned away from Mayella he looked like his stomachhurt, but Mayella's face was a mixture of terror and fury. Atticus satdown wearily and polished his glasses with his handkerchief.
“你爸爸在窗户里看到的是什么？强奸罪，还是最好的辩护理由？孩子，你为什么不说实话？鲍勃·尤厄尔没打你吗？”阿蒂克斯转身离开梅耶拉时，看起来肚子疼，但梅耶拉的脸上却充满了恐惧和愤怒。阿蒂克斯疲惫地坐下，用手帕擦着眼镜。
　　Suddenly Mayella became articulate. "I got somethin' to say," shesaid.
突然间，梅耶拉开口说话了。“我有话要说。”她说。
　　Atticus raised his head. "Do you want to tell us what happened?"But she did not hear the compassion in his invitation. "I gotsomethin' to say an' then I ain't gonna say no more. That niggeryonder took advantage of me an' if you fine fancy gentlemen don'twanta do nothin' about it then you're all yellow stinkin' cowards,stinkin' cowards, the lot of you. Your fancy airs don't come tonothin'- your ma'amin' and Miss Mayellerin' don't come to nothin', Mr.
阿蒂克斯抬起头。“你想告诉我们发生了什么事吗？”但她没听出他邀请中的同情。“我有话要说，就不说了。那边那个黑鬼占了我便宜，如果你们这些装腔作势的绅士们对此无动于衷，那你们就是一群胆小鬼，臭烘烘的胆小鬼。你们的装腔作势不会有什么结果——你们的夫人和梅耶尔小姐也不会有什么结果，先生。”
　　Finch-"Then she burst into real tears. Her shoulders shook with angry sobs.
芬奇：“然后她真的哭了起来。她的肩膀因愤怒的哭泣而颤抖。”
　　She was as good as her word. She answered no more questions, even whenMr. Gilmer tried to get her back on the track. I guess if she hadn'tbeen so poor and ignorant, Judge Taylor would have put her under thejail for the contempt she had shown everybody in the courtroom.
她言行一致。即使吉尔默先生试图让她回到正轨，她也不再回答任何问题。我想，要不是她如此贫穷和无知，泰勒法官早就把她关进监狱了，因为她在法庭上对所有人表现出了蔑视。
　　Somehow, Atticus had hit her hard in a way that was not clear to me,but it gave him no pleasure to do so. He sat with his head down, and Inever saw anybody glare at anyone with the hatred Mayella showedwhen she left the stand and walked by Atticus's table.
阿蒂克斯不知怎么地狠狠地打了她，我不明白是怎么回事，但他这样做并不高兴。他低着头坐着，我从未见过有人像梅耶拉离开看台，走过阿蒂克斯的桌子时那样，用仇恨的目光瞪着别人。
　　When Mr. Gilmer told Judge Taylor that the state rested, JudgeTaylor said, "It's time we all did. We'll take ten minutes."Atticus and Mr. Gilmer met in front of the bench and whispered, thenthey left the courtroom by a door behind the witness stand, whichwas a signal for us all to stretch. I discovered that I had beensitting on the edge of the long bench, and I was somewhat numb. Jemgot up and yawned, Dill did likewise, and Reverend Sykes wiped hisface on his hat. The temperature was an easy ninety, he said.
当吉尔默先生告诉泰勒法官休庭时，泰勒法官说：“我们大家都休庭了。我们休息十分钟。” 阿蒂克斯和吉尔默先生在法官席前碰面，低声说了几句话，然后从证人席后面的一扇门离开了法庭，这是让我们大家伸伸懒腰的信号。我发现自己一直坐在长凳边上，感觉有点麻木。杰姆站起来打了个哈欠，迪尔也打了个哈欠，赛克斯牧师用帽子擦了擦脸。他说，体温正好在九十度。
　　Mr. Braxton Underwood, who had been sitting quietly in a chairreserved for the Press, soaking up testimony with his sponge of abrain, allowed his bitter eyes to rove over the colored balcony, andthey met mine. He gave a snort and looked away.
布拉克斯顿·安德伍德先生一直静静地坐在记者席上，用他那块海绵般的脑袋吸收着证词，他那双苦涩的目光扫过彩色阳台，正好与我的目光相遇。他哼了一声，把目光移开了。
　　"Jem," I said, "Mr. Underwood's seen us.""That's okay. He won't tell Atticus, he'll just put it on the socialside of the Tribune." Jem turned back to Dill, explaining, Isuppose, the finer points of the trial to him, but I wondered whatthey were. There had been no lengthy debates between Atticus and Mr.
“杰姆，”我说，“安德伍德先生看到我们了。”“没关系。他不会告诉阿蒂克斯，只会把这事放在《论坛报》的社交版上。”杰姆转身对迪尔说，我猜他正在向他解释审判的细节，但我不明白具体是什么。阿蒂克斯和安德伍德先生之间并没有进行长时间的辩论。
　　Gilmer on any points; Mr. Gilmer seemed to be prosecuting almostreluctantly; witnesses had been led by the nose as asses are, with fewobjections. But Atticus had once told us that in Judge Taylor'scourt any lawyer who was a strict constructionist on evidenceusually wound up receiving strict instructions from the bench. Hedistilled this for me to mean that Judge Taylor might look lazy andoperate in his sleep, but he was seldom reversed, and that was theproof of the pudding. Atticus said he was a good judge.
吉尔默先生在任何方面都毫无保留；吉尔默先生的起诉似乎几乎是心甘情愿的；证人们就像傻瓜一样被牵着鼻子走，几乎没有提出任何异议。但阿蒂克斯曾经告诉我们，在泰勒法官的法庭上，任何严格解释证据的律师通常都会受到法官的严格指示。他给我总结了一下，意思是泰勒法官可能看起来很懒，而且在睡梦中也能做事，但他的判决很少被推翻，而这才是真正的证据。阿蒂克斯说他是一位好法官。
　　Presently Judge Taylor returned and climbed into his swivel chair.
不久，泰勒法官回来了，坐到了他的转椅上。
　　He took a cigar from his vest pocket and examined it thoughtfully. Ipunched Dill. Having passed the judge's inspection, the cigar suffereda vicious bite. "We come down sometimes to watch him," I explained.
他从背心口袋里掏出一支雪茄，若有所思地端详着。我打了迪尔一拳。雪茄通过了裁判的检查，却被狠狠地咬了一口。“我们有时会下来观察他，”我解释道。
　　"It's gonna take him the rest of the afternoon, now. You watch."Unaware of public scrutiny from above, Judge Taylor disposed of thesevered end by propelling it expertly to his lips and saying,"Fhluck!" He hit a spittoon so squarely we could hear it slosh. "Bethe was hell with a spitball," murmured Dill.
“他得干这活儿，今天下午剩下的时间都得干了。你们看着呢。”泰勒法官丝毫没有察觉到上面众人的注视，熟练地把断掉的那根棍子往嘴边一塞，然后骂了一声：“噗！”他正中痰盂，磕得我们都能听见痰盂晃动的声音。“贝特用痰盂真是个大麻烦，”迪尔低声说。
　　As a rule, a recess meant a general exodus, but today people weren'tmoving. Even the Idlers who had failed to shame younger men from theirseats had remained standing along the walls. I guess Mr. Heck Tate hadreserved the county toilet for court officials.
按理说，休庭意味着全体人员撤离，但今天人们却一动不动。就连那些没能把年轻男子从座位上赶下来的“闲人”们也仍然靠墙站着。我猜赫克·泰特先生把县里的厕所留给了法院官员。
　　Atticus and Mr. Gilmer returned, and Judge Taylor looked at hiswatch. "It's gettin' on to four," he said, which was intriguing, asthe courthouse clock must have struck the hour at least twice. I hadnot heard it or felt its vibrations.
阿蒂克斯和吉尔默先生回来了，泰勒法官看了看表。“快到四点了，”他说。这话倒是挺有意思的，因为法院的钟肯定至少敲过两次。我既没听到，也没感觉到它的震动。
　　"Shall we try to wind up this afternoon?" asked Judge Taylor. "How'bout it, Atticus?""I think we can," said Atticus.
“我们今天下午结束好吗？”泰勒法官问。“怎么样，阿蒂克斯？”“我想可以。”阿蒂克斯说。
　　"How many witnesses you got?""One.""Well, call him."19Thomas Robinson reached around, ran his fingers under his left armand lifted it. He guided his arm to the Bible and his rubber-like lefthand sought contact with the black binding. As he raised his righthand, the useless one slipped off the Bible and hit the clerk's table.
“你有几个证人？”“一个。”“好吧，叫他来。”19托马斯·罗宾逊伸手，手指摸到左臂下方，然后举了起来。他把胳膊伸向《圣经》，橡胶般的左手摸索着黑色的封面。当他抬起右手时，那只无用的右手从《圣经》上滑落下来，砸在了书记员的桌子上。
　　He was trying again when Judge Taylor growled, "That'll do, Tom."Tom took the oath and stepped into the witness chair. Atticus veryquickly induced him to tell us:
他正要再次开口，泰勒法官低声说道：“够了，汤姆。”汤姆宣誓完毕，坐上了证人席。阿蒂克斯很快就说服了他，让他告诉我们：
　　Tom was twenty-five years of age; he was married with threechildren; he had been in trouble with the law before: he once receivedthirty days for disorderly conduct.
汤姆今年二十五岁，已婚，有三个孩子，以前曾触犯过法律：他曾因扰乱治安被判处三十天监禁。
　　"It must have been disorderly," said Atticus. "What did it consistof?""Got in a fight with another man, he tried to cut me.""Did he succeed?""Yes suh, a little, not enough to hurt. You see, I-" Tom moved hisleft shoulder.
“肯定闹得有点混乱，”阿蒂克斯说。“都是什么事？”“跟另一个人打架，他想砍我。”“他得手了吗？”“是的，先生，有点儿，没伤到我。你看，我——”汤姆活动了一下左肩。
　　"Yes," said Atticus. "You were both convicted?""Yes suh, I had to serve 'cause I couldn't pay the fine. Otherfellow paid his'n."Dill leaned across me and asked Jem what Atticus was doing. Jem saidAtticus was showing the jury that Tom had nothing to hide.
“是的，”阿蒂克斯说。“你们俩都被定罪了？”“是的，先生，我不得不服刑，因为我付不起罚款。另一个人也付了。”迪尔俯身越过我，问杰姆阿蒂克斯在干什么。杰姆说阿蒂克斯是在向陪审团表明汤姆没什么可隐瞒的。
　　"Were you acquainted with Mayella Violet Ewell?" asked Atticus.
“你认识梅耶拉·维奥莱特·尤厄尔吗？”阿蒂克斯问。
　　"Yes suh, I had to pass her place goin' to and from the fieldevery day.""Whose field?""I picks for Mr. Link Deas.""Were you picking cotton in November?""No suh, I works in his yard fall an' wintertime. I works prettysteady for him all year round, he's got a lot of pecan trees'nthings.""You say you had to pass the Ewell place to get to and from work. Isthere any other way to go?""No suh, none's I know of.""Tom, did she ever speak to you?""Why, yes suh, I'd tip m'hat when I'd go by, and one day she askedme to come inside the fence and bust up a chiffarobe for her.""When did she ask you to chop up the- the chiffarobe?""Mr. Finch, it was way last spring. I remember it because it waschoppin' time and I had my hoe with me. I said I didn't have nothin'
“是的，先生，我每天上下田都要经过她家。”“谁的田？”“我帮林克·迪斯先生摘棉花。”“你十一月摘棉花吗？”“没有，先生，我秋冬两季都在他家院子里干活。我一年到头都在他家干活，他家有很多山核桃树之类的。”“你说你上下班要经过尤厄尔家。还有其他路吗？”“没有，先生，我不知道有其他路。”“汤姆，她跟你说过话吗？”“嗯，是的，先生，我路过的时候都会脱帽致敬，有一天她让我进篱笆，帮她砸一个大衣柜。”“她什么时候让你把那个——那个大衣柜劈开的？”“芬奇先生，那是去年春天的事了。我记得那事，因为当时正是砍树的季节，我带着锄头。我说我没有……”没什么
　　but this hoe, but she said she had a hatchet. She give me thehatchet and I broke up the chiffarobe. She said, 'I reckon I'llhafta give you a nickel, won't I?' an' I said, 'No ma'am, thereain't no charge.' Then I went home. Mr. Finch, that was way lastspring, way over a year ago.""Did you ever go on the place again?""Yes suh.""When?""Well, I went lots of times."Judge Taylor instinctively reached for his gavel, but let his handfall. The murmur below us died without his help.
可是这锄头，她说她有把斧头。她把斧头给了我，我把那面立柜砸碎了。她说：“我估计得给你五分钱，行吗？”我说：“不用了，夫人，不用付钱。”然后我就回家了。“芬奇先生，那是去年春天的事了，一年多以前。”“你后来又去过那地方吗？”“是的，先生。”“什么时候？”“嗯，我去过很多次。”泰勒法官本能地伸手去拿法槌，但手却落了下来。楼下的窃窃私语声没有他的帮助就消失了。
　　"Under what circumstances?""Please, suh?""Why did you go inside the fence lots of times?"Tom Robinson's forehead relaxed. "She'd call me in, suh. Seemed likeevery time I passed by yonder she'd have some little somethin' forme to do- choppin' kindlin', totin' water for her. She watered themred flowers every day-""Were you paid for your services?""No suh, not after she offered me a nickel the first time. I wasglad to do it, Mr. Ewell didn't seem to help her none, and neither didthe chillun, and I knowed she didn't have no nickels to spare.""Where were the other children?""They was always around, all over the place. They'd watch me work,some of 'em, some of 'em'd set in the window.""Would Miss Mayella talk to you?""Yes sir, she talked to me."As Tom Robinson gave his testimony, it came to me that Mayella Ewellmust have been the loneliest person in the world. She was evenlonelier than Boo Radley, who had not been out of the house intwenty-five years. When Atticus asked had she any friends, sheseemed not to know what he meant, then she thought he was making funof her. She was as sad, I thought, as what Jem called a mixed child:
“在什么情况下？”“请问，先生？”“你为什么多次进入栅栏内？”汤姆·罗宾逊的额头放松了。 “她会叫我进去，先生。好像每次我路过那边，她都会让我做点小事——砍柴，给她提水。她每天都会浇那些红花——”“你做这些事有报酬吗？”“没有，先生，自从她第一次给了我五分钱之后就没有了。我很乐意帮忙，但尤厄尔先生好像没帮她什么忙，孩子们也没帮，我知道她身上没多余的五分钱。”“其他孩子呢？”“他们总是在附近，到处都是。他们会看着我干活，有的看着，有的坐在窗台上。”“梅耶拉小姐会跟你说话吗？”“是的，先生，她跟我说过。”汤姆·罗宾逊作证时，我突然意识到梅耶拉·尤厄尔一定是世界上最孤独的人。她甚至比布·拉德利还要孤独，后者已经二十五年没出过门了。阿蒂克斯问她有没有朋友，她似乎不明白他的意思，以为他在取笑她。我想，她就像杰姆所说的混血儿一样悲伤：
　　white people wouldn't have anything to do with her because she livedamong pigs; Negroes wouldn't have anything to do with her becauseshe was white. She couldn't live like Mr. Dolphus Raymond, whopreferred the company of Negroes, because she didn't own a riverbankand she wasn't from a fine old family. Nobody said, "That's just theirway," about the Ewells. Maycomb gave them Christmas baskets, welfaremoney, and the back of its hand. Tom Robinson was probably the onlyperson who was ever decent to her. But she said he took advantage ofher, and when she stood up she looked at him as if he were dirtbeneath her feet.
白人不愿与她有任何瓜葛，因为她生活在猪群之中；黑人不愿与她有任何瓜葛，因为她是白人。她无法像多尔弗斯·雷蒙德先生那样生活，他更喜欢与黑人为伍，因为她没有河岸，也不是出身名门望族。没人会说尤厄尔一家“这就是他们的作风”。梅科姆镇给他们送圣诞礼篮、救济金，却对他们不闻不问。汤姆·鲁宾逊或许是唯一一个对她体面的人。但她说他利用了她，当她站起来时，她看着他的眼神仿佛他是她脚下的泥土。
　　"Did you ever," Atticus interrupted my meditations, "at any time, goon the Ewell property- did you ever set foot on the Ewell propertywithout an express invitation from one of them?""No suh, Mr. Finch, I never did. I wouldn't do that, suh."Atticus sometimes said that one way to tell whether a witness waslying or telling the truth was to listen rather than watch: Iapplied his test- Tom denied it three times in one breath, butquietly, with no hint of whining in his voice, and I found myselfbelieving him in spite of his protesting too much. He seemed to be arespectable Negro, and a respectable Negro would never go up intosomebody's yard of his own volition.
“你有没有，”阿蒂克斯打断了我的沉思，“在任何时候，未经尤厄尔家任何人的明确邀请，擅自踏足尤厄尔家的土地？”“没有，先生，芬奇先生，我从来没有。我不会那样做的，先生。”阿蒂克斯有时会说，判断证人是在撒谎还是说实话的一个方法是倾听而不是观察：我运用了他的检验方法——汤姆一口气否认了三次，但语气平静，没有一丝抱怨，尽管他极力辩解，我还是相信了他。他看起来像个体面的黑人，而一个体面的黑人绝不会主动闯进别人的院子。
　　"Tom, what happened to you on the evening of November twenty-firstof last year?"Below us, the spectators drew a collective breath and leanedforward. Behind us, the Negroes did the same.
“汤姆，去年十一月二十一日晚上，你到底怎么了？”我们下面的观众们齐齐倒吸一口气，身体前倾。我们身后的黑人也做了同样的动作。
　　Tom was a black-velvet Negro, not shiny, but soft black velvet. ...
　　The whites of his eyes shone in his face, and when he spoke we sawflashes of his teeth. If he had been whole, he would have been afine specimen of a man.
他的眼白闪闪发光，说话时，我们看见他露出一口亮晶晶的牙齿。如果他完好无损，那一定是一个堪称完美的男人。
　　"Mr. Finch," he said, "I was goin' home as usual that evenin', an'
“芬奇先生，”他说，“那天晚上我像往常一样回家，
　　when I passed the Ewell place Miss Mayella were on the porch, like shesaid she were. It seemed real quiet like, an' I didn't quite know why.
我路过尤厄尔家的时候，梅耶拉小姐正站在门廊上，就像她说的那样。周围似乎很安静，我也不太明白为什么。
　　I was studyin' why, just passin' by, when she says for me to comethere and help her a minute. Well, I went inside the fence an'
我正琢磨着为什么，路过的时候，她就让我过去帮她一下。于是，我就进了栅栏，
　　looked around for some kindlin' to work on, but I didn't see none, andshe says, 'Naw, I got somethin' for you to do in the house. Th' olddoor's off its hinges an' fall's comin' on pretty fast.' I said yougot a screwdriver, Miss Mayella? She said she sho' had. Well, I wentup the steps an' she motioned me to come inside, and I went in thefront room an' looked at the door. I said Miss Mayella, this door lookall right. I pulled it back'n forth and those hinges was all right.
我四处寻找引火物，却一无所获。她说：“没了，我给你找点东西在屋里做。那扇旧门的铰链脱落了，快要塌了。”我说梅耶拉小姐，你有螺丝刀吗？她说她肯定有。于是，我走上台阶，她示意我进去，我走进前厅，看了看门。我说梅耶拉小姐，这门看起来没问题。我把门前后拉了一下，铰链没问题。
　　Then she shet the door in my face. Mr. Finch, I was wonderin' why itwas so quiet like, an' it come to me that there weren't a chile on theplace, not a one of 'em, and I said Miss Mayella, where the chillun?"Tom's black velvet skin had begun to shine, and he ran his hand overhis face.
然后她当着我的面关上了门。“芬奇先生，我正纳闷为什么这么安静呢？突然想起这地方一个孩子也没有，一个也没有。我就问梅耶拉小姐，孩子们去哪儿了？”汤姆黑色天鹅绒般的皮肤开始泛光，他用手摸了摸脸。
　　"I say where the chillun?" he continued, "an' she says- she waslaughin', sort of- she says they all gone to town to get ice creams.
“我说孩子们去哪儿了？”他继续说道，“然后她说——她有点儿在笑——她说他们都去镇上买冰淇淋了。
　　She says, 'took me a slap year to save seb'm nickels, but I done it.
她说，“我花了一年多的时间才攒够钱，但我做到了。”
　　They all gone to town.'"Tom's discomfort was not from the humidity. "What did you saythen, Tom?" asked Atticus.
他们都进城了。”汤姆的不适并非来自潮湿。“你刚才说什么，汤姆？”阿蒂克斯问。
　　"I said somethin' like, why Miss Mayella, that's right smart o'youto treat 'em. An' she said, 'You think so?' I don't think sheunderstood what I was thinkin'- I meant it was smart of her to savelike that, an' nice of her to treat em.""I understand you, Tom. Go on," said Atticus.
“我说了些类似这样的话：‘哎呀，马耶拉小姐，你这样对待他们真是太明智了。’然后她说：‘你这么认为吗？’我想她没明白我的意思——我的意思是，她这样存钱真是太明智了，她这样对待他们真是太好了。”“我明白你的意思，汤姆。继续说吧，”阿蒂克斯说。
　　"Well, I said I best be goin', I couldn't do nothin' for her, an'
“好吧，我说我最好走了，我不能为她做任何事，而且
　　she says oh yes I could, an' I ask her what, and she says to just stepon that chair yonder an' git that box down from on top of thechiffarobe.""Not the same chiffarobe you busted up?" asked Atticus.
她说，哦，是的，我可以，我问她什么，她说只要站在那边的椅子上，把那个盒子从衣柜顶上拿下来就行了。”“不是你打碎的那台衣柜吗？”阿蒂克斯问。
　　The witness smiled. "Naw suh, another one. Most as tall as the room.
证人笑了笑。“不，先生，又一个。最多和房间一样高。”
　　So I done what she told me, an' I was just reachin' when the nextthing I knows she- she'd grabbed me round the legs, grabbed me roundth' legs, Mr. Finch. She scared me so bad I hopped down an' turned thechair over- that was the only thing, only furniture, 'sturbed inthat room, Mr. Finch, when I left it. I swear 'fore God.""What happened after you turned the chair over?"Tom Robinson had come to a dead stop. He glanced at Atticus, then atthe jury, then at Mr. Underwood sitting across the room.
于是我照她说的做了，刚要伸手，接下来发生的事情我知道了——她抓住了我的腿，抓住了我的腿，芬奇先生。她吓得我跳了下来，把椅子翻了过来——芬奇先生，我离开的时候，房间里只有这件东西，只有家具，被翻动过。我以上帝之名发誓。”“你把椅子翻过来之后发生了什么？”汤姆·罗宾逊突然停了下来。他看了一眼阿蒂克斯，又看了看陪审团，然后又看了看坐在房间另一头的安德伍德先生。
　　"Tom, you're sworn to tell the whole truth. Will you tell it?"Tom ran his hand nervously over his mouth.
“汤姆，你发誓要说出全部真相。你会说出来吗？”汤姆紧张地用手捂住嘴。
　　"What happened after that?""Answer the question," said Judge Taylor. One-third of his cigar hadvanished.
“后来怎么样了？”“回答问题，”泰勒法官说。他的雪茄已经消失了三分之一。
　　"Mr. Finch, I got down offa that chair an' turned around an' shesorta jumped on me.""Jumped on you? Violently?""No suh, she- she hugged me. She hugged me round the waist."This time Judge Taylor's gavel came down with a bang, and as itdid the overhead lights went on in the courtroom. Darkness had notcome, but the afternoon sun had left the windows. Judge Taylor quicklyrestored order.
“芬奇先生，我从椅子上下来，转过身，她就扑向了我。”“扑向你？猛烈地扑向你？”“不，先生，她——她抱住了我。她搂住了我的腰。”这一次，泰勒法官的法槌砰的一声落下，法庭的顶灯也随之亮了起来。天还没有黑，但午后的阳光已经离开了窗户。泰勒法官迅速恢复了秩序。
　　"Then what did she do?"The witness swallowed hard. "She reached up an' kissed me 'side ofth' face. She says she never kissed a grown man before an' she mightas well kiss a nigger. She says what her papa do to her don't count.
“那她做了什么？”证人用力咽了口唾沫。“她伸手吻了我的侧脸。她说她以前从未吻过成年男人，吻黑鬼也一样。她说她爸爸对她做的事不算数。”
　　She says, 'Kiss me back, nigger.' I say Miss Mayella lemme outa herean' tried to run but she got her back to the door an' I'da had to pushher. I didn't wanta harm her, Mr. Finch, an' I say lemme pass, butjust when I say it Mr. Ewell yonder hollered through th' window.""What did he say?"Tom Robinson swallowed again, and his eyes widened. "Somethin' notfittin' to say- not fittin' for these folks'n chillun to hear-""What did he say, Tom? You must tell the jury what he said."Tom Robinson shut his eyes tight. "He says you goddamn whore, I'llkill ya.""Then what happened?""Mr. Finch, I was runnin' so fast I didn't know what happened.""Tom, did you rape Mayella Ewell?""I did not, suh.""Did you harm her in any way?""I did not, suh.""Did you resist her advances?""Mr. Finch, I tried. I tried to 'thout bein' ugly to her. I didn'twanta be ugly, I didn't wanta push her or nothin'."It occurred to me that in their own way, Tom Robinson's manners wereas good as Atticus's. Until my father explained it to me later, Idid not understand the subtlety of Tom's predicament: he would nothave dared strike a white woman under any circumstances and expectto live long, so he took the first opportunity to run- a sure signof guilt.
她说：‘回吻我，黑鬼。’我说梅耶拉小姐，让我出去，然后想跑，但她背对着门，我不得不推她。芬奇先生，我不想伤害她，我说让我过去，可就在我说话的时候，那边的尤厄尔先生从窗户里喊道。“他说了什么？”汤姆·罗宾逊又咽了口唾沫，眼睛睁得大大的。“说了些不该说的话——不该让这些人和孩子们听到——”“他说了什么，汤姆？你必须告诉陪审团他说了什么。”汤姆·罗宾逊紧闭双眼。“他说你这个该死的婊子，我要杀了你。”“然后呢？”“先生……” “芬奇先生，我跑得太快了，根本不知道发生了什么事。”“汤姆，你强奸了梅耶拉·尤厄尔吗？”“我没有，先生。”“你伤害了她吗？”“我没有，先生。”“你抵抗了她的进攻吗？”“芬奇先生，我试过了。我尽量不让她觉得难看。我不想让她觉得难看，我不想推她什么的。”我突然想到，汤姆·鲁宾逊的举止和阿蒂克斯一样好，虽然他们各有各的道理。直到后来父亲向我解释，我才明白汤姆处境的微妙之处：无论如何，他都不敢动一个白人女人，还指望能活很久，所以他抓住第一个机会就跑了——这无疑是一种愧疚的表现。
　　"Tom, go back once more to Mr. Ewell," said Atticus. "Did he sayanything to you?""Not anything, suh. He mighta said somethin', but I weren't there-""That'll do," Atticus cut in sharply. "What you did hear, who was hetalking to?""Mr. Finch, he were talkin' and lookin' at Miss Mayella.""Then you ran?""I sho' did, suh.""Why did you run?""I was scared, suh.""Why were you scared?""Mr. Finch, if you was a nigger like me, you'd be scared, too."Atticus sat down. Mr. Gilmer was making his way to the witnessstand, but before he got there Mr. Link Deas rose from the audienceand announced:
“汤姆，再回去找尤厄尔先生，”阿蒂克斯说。“他跟你说了什么吗？”“什么也没说，先生。他可能说了些什么，但我当时不在场——”“够了，”阿蒂克斯厉声打断道。“你听到的，他在跟谁说话？”“芬奇先生，他一边说话，一边看着马耶拉小姐。”“然后你就跑了？”“我肯定跑了，先生。”“你为什么跑？”“我害怕，先生。”“你为什么害怕？”“芬奇先生，如果你像我一样是个黑鬼，你也会害怕的。”阿蒂克斯坐了下来。吉尔默先生正走向证人席，但他还没走到证人席，林克·迪斯先生就从观众席上站起来，宣布道：
　　"I just want the whole lot of you to know one thing right now.
“我现在只想让你们所有人都知道一件事。
　　That boy's worked for me eight years an' I ain't had a speck o'troubleouta him. Not a speck.""Shut your mouth, sir!" Judge Taylor was wide awake and roaring.
那小子为我工作了八年，他没给我惹过一丁点麻烦。一点儿也没有。”“闭嘴，先生！”泰勒法官一下子清醒过来，咆哮道。
　　He was also pink in the face. His speech was miraculously unimpairedby his cigar. "Link Deas," he yelled, "if you have anything you wantto say you can say it under oath and at the proper time, but untilthen you get out of this room, you hear me? Get out of this room, sir,you hear me? I'll be damned if I'll listen to this case again!"Judge Taylor looked daggers at Atticus, as if daring him to speak,but Atticus had ducked his head and was laughing into his lap. Iremembered something he had said about Judge Taylor's ex cathedraremarks sometimes exceeding his duty, but that few lawyers ever didanything about them. I looked at Jem, but Jem shook his head. "Itain't like one of the jurymen got up and started talking," he said. "Ithink it'd be different then. Mr. Link was just disturbin' the peaceor something."Judge Taylor told the reporter to expunge anything he happened tohave written down after Mr. Finch if you were a nigger like me you'dbe scared too, and told the jury to disregard the interruption. Helooked suspiciously down the middle aisle and waited, I suppose, forMr. Link Deas to effect total departure. Then he said, "Go ahead,Mr. Gilmer.""You were given thirty days once for disorderly conduct,Robinson?" asked Mr. Gilmer.
他的脸也涨得通红。奇迹般地，雪茄丝毫没有影响他的说话。“林克·迪斯，”他喊道，“如果你有什么想说的，可以在宣誓后，在适当的时候说，但在那之前，你给我滚出这个房间，听见了吗？滚出这个房间，先生，听见了吗？我以后再也不想听这个案子了！”泰勒法官怒目而视地看着阿蒂克斯，仿佛在挑衅他说话，但阿蒂克斯却低下头，趴在他腿上哈哈大笑。我记得他曾说过，泰勒法官的教皇式言论有时超出了他的职责范围，但很少有律师会对此采取行动。我看向杰姆，但杰姆摇了摇头。“好像哪个陪审员站起来说话了，”他说。 “我想那会不一样。林克先生只是扰乱治安之类的。”泰勒法官让记者把芬奇先生之后写下的所有内容都删掉——如果你像我一样是个黑鬼，你也会害怕的——并告诉陪审团不要理会他的打断。他狐疑地望着中间的过道，我猜想，是在等林克·迪亚斯先生完全离开。然后他说：“去吧，吉尔默先生。”“罗宾逊，你因为扰乱治安被判了三十天？”吉尔默先生问道。
　　"Yes suh.""What'd the nigger look like when you got through with him?""He beat me, Mr. Gilmer.""Yes, but you were convicted, weren't you?"Atticus raised his head. "It was a misdemeanor and it's in therecord, Judge." I thought he sounded tired.
“是的，先生。”“你打完那个黑鬼之后，他什么样子？”“他打我了，吉尔默先生。”“是的，但你被判了罪，对吧？”阿蒂克斯抬起头。“那是轻罪，记录在案，法官。”我觉得他听起来很疲惫。
　　"Witness'll answer, though," said Judge Taylor, just as wearily.
“不过，证人会回答的，”泰勒法官同样疲倦地说道。
　　"Yes suh, I got thirty days."I knew that Mr. Gilmer would sincerely tell the jury that anyone whowas convicted of disorderly conduct could easily have had it in hisheart to take advantage of Mayella Ewell, that was the only reasonhe cared. Reasons like that helped.
“是的，先生，我被判了三十天。”我知道吉尔默先生会真诚地告诉陪审团，任何被判扰乱治安罪的人，很可能都想占梅耶拉·尤厄尔的便宜，这就是他关心的唯一原因。这样的理由很有帮助。
　　"Robinson, you're pretty good at busting up chiffarobes and kindlingwith one hand, aren't you?""Yes, suh, I reckon so.""Strong enough to choke the breath out of a woman and sling her tothe floor?""I never done that, suh.""But you are strong enough to?""I reckon so, suh.""Had your eye on her a long time, hadn't you, boy?""No suh, I never looked at her.""Then you were mighty polite to do all that chopping and hauling forher, weren't you, boy?""I was just tryin' to help her out, suh.""That was mighty generous of you, you had chores at home afteryour regular work, didn't you?""Yes suh.""Why didn't you do them instead of Miss Ewell's?""I done 'em both, suh.""You must have been pretty busy. Why?""Why what, suh?""Why were you so anxious to do that woman's chores?"Tom Robinson hesitated, searching for an answer. "Looked like shedidn't have nobody to help her, like I says-""With Mr. Ewell and seven children on the place, boy?""Well, I says it looked like they never help her none-""You did all this chopping and work from sheer goodness, boy?""Tried to help her, I says."Mr. Gilmer smiled grimly at the jury. "You're a mighty goodfellow, it seems- did all this for not one penny?""Yes, suh. I felt right sorry for her, she seemed to try more'nthe rest of 'em-""You felt sorry for her, you felt sorry for her?" Mr. Gilmerseemed ready to rise to the ceiling.
“罗宾逊，你一只手就能砸碎立柜和引火物，真是厉害，对吧？”“是的，先生，我想是的。”“力气大到能掐死一个女人，然后把她摔到地上？”“我从来没做过那种事，先生。”“但你力气大到可以做到吗？”“我想是的，先生。”“你盯着她很久了，是不是，小子？”“没有，先生，我根本没看过她。”“那你替她砍柴搬东西，真是太客气了，是不是，小子？”“我只是想帮她忙，先生。”“你真是太慷慨了，下班后你还有家务要做，对吧？”“是的，先生。”“为什么不替尤厄尔小姐做家务呢？”“我两样都做了，先生。”“你肯定很忙吧。为什么？”“为什么什么，先生？”“你为什么这么着急？” “帮那个女人做家务？”汤姆·罗宾逊犹豫了一下，想找个答案。“看起来她好像没人帮她，就像我说的——”“家里还有尤厄尔先生和七个孩子，孩子？”“嗯，我说他们好像从来没人帮她——”“你砍柴干活完全是出于好心，孩子？”“我说，尽力帮助她。”吉尔默先生对陪审团冷冷一笑。“看来你是个好人——你做这些事，一分钱也没挣到？”“是的，先生。我真替她难过，她好像比其他人更努力——”“你可怜她，你可怜她？”吉尔默先生好像快要气炸了。
　　The witness realized his mistake and shifted uncomfortably in thechair. But the damage was done. Below us, nobody liked TomRobinson's answer. Mr. Gilmer paused a long time to let it sink in.
证人意识到了自己的错误，在椅子上不安地挪了挪身子。但后果已经造成了。在我们下面，没有人喜欢汤姆·罗宾逊的回答。吉尔默先生停顿了很久，才消化他的话。
　　"Now you went by the house as usual, last November twenty-first," hesaid, "and she asked you to come in and bust up a chiffarobe?""No suh.""Do you deny that you went by the house?""No suh- she said she had somethin' for me to do inside the house-""She says she asked you to bust up a chiffarobe, is that right?""No suh, it ain't.""Then you say she's lying, boy?"Atticus was on his feet, but Tom Robinson didn't need him. "Idon't say she's lyin', Mr. Gilmer, I say she's mistaken in her mind."To the next ten questions, as Mr. Gilmer reviewed Mayella'sversion of events, the witness's steady answer was that she wasmistaken in her mind.
“去年十一月二十一日，你照例路过那栋房子，”他说，“她让你进去砸一个立柜？”“不，先生。”“你否认你去过那栋房子吗？”“不，先生——她说她有事要我进屋做——”“她说她让你砸一个立柜，对吗？”“不，先生，不是。”“这么说，你是说她在撒谎，孩子？”阿蒂克斯站了起来，但汤姆·罗宾逊不需要他回答。“我不是说她在撒谎，吉尔默先生，我是说她记错了。”接下来的十个问题，吉尔默先生回顾了马耶拉对事件的描述，证人坚定地回答说，她记错了。
　　"Didn't Mr. Ewell run you off the place, boy?""No suh, I don't think he did.""Don't think, what do you mean?""I mean I didn't stay long enough for him to run me off.""You're very candid about this, why did you run so fast?""I says I was scared, suh.""If you had a clear conscience, why were you scared?""Like I says before, it weren't safe for any nigger to be in a-fix like that.""But you weren't in a fix- you testified that you were resistingMiss Ewell. Were you so scared that she'd hurt you, you ran, a bigbuck like you?""No suh, I's scared I'd be in court, just like I am now.""Scared of arrest, scared you'd have to face up to what you did?""No suh, scared I'd hafta face up to what I didn't do.""Are you being impudent to me, boy?""No suh, I didn't go to be."This was as much as I heard of Mr. Gilmer's cross-examination,because Jem made me take Dill out. For some reason Dill had startedcrying and couldn't stop; quietly at first, then his sobs were heardby several people in the balcony. Jem said if I didn't go with himhe'd make me, and Reverend Sykes said I'd better go, so I went. Dillhad seemed to be all right that day, nothing wrong with him, but Iguessed he hadn't fully recovered from running away.
“小子，尤厄尔先生没把你赶走吗？”“没有，先生，我想他没赶你。”“别想了，你什么意思？”“我是说，我待的时间不够长，他没赶我走。”“你说得真坦白，你为什么跑那么快？”“我说我害怕，先生。”“如果你问心无愧，为什么害怕？”“就像我之前说的，黑鬼那样的困境都不安全。”“但你没有遇到什么困境——你作证说你在反抗尤厄尔小姐。你这么个大人物，是不是害怕她会伤害你，所以才逃跑的？”“不，先生，我害怕我会上法庭，就像现在这样。”“害怕被捕，害怕你必须面对你做过的事？”“不，先生，我害怕我必须面对我没有做过的事。”“你是不是太无耻了……” “我，孩子？”“不，先生，我没有去。”吉尔默先生的盘问我只听到了这么多，因为杰姆让我带迪尔出去。不知怎么的，迪尔哭了起来，停不下来；起初他很安静，后来他的哭声被阳台上的几个人听到了。杰姆说如果我不跟他走，他就强迫我走，赛克斯牧师说我最好走，所以我就去了。迪尔那天看起来还好，没什么问题，但我猜他还没有完全从离家出走的阴影中恢复过来。
　　"Ain't you feeling good?" I asked, when we reached the bottom of thestairs.
当我们走到楼梯底部时，我问道：“你感觉不好吗？”
　　Dill tried to pull himself together as we ran down the southsteps. Mr. Link Deas was a lonely figure on the top step. "Anythinghappenin', Scout?" he asked as we went by. "No sir," I answered overmy shoulder. "Dill here, he's sick.""Come on out under the trees," I said. "Heat got you, I expect."We chose the fattest live oak and we sat under it.
我们跑下南边的台阶时，迪尔努力让自己镇定下来。林克·迪斯先生孤零零地站在最高一级台阶上。“斯库特，出什么事了吗？”我们经过时，他问道。“没有，先生，”我回头回答。“迪尔在这儿，他病了。”“到树底下去吧，”我说。“我猜你受热了。”我们选了一棵最粗壮的橡树，坐在下面。
　　"It was just him I couldn't stand," Dill said.
“我只是受不了他，”迪尔说。
　　"Who, Tom?""That old Mr. Gilmer doin' him thataway, talking so hateful to him-""Dill, that's his job. Why, if we didn't have prosecutors- well,we couldn't have defense attorneys, I reckon."Dill exhaled patiently. "I know all that, Scout. It was the way hesaid it made me sick, plain sick.""He's supposed to act that way, Dill, he was cross-""He didn't act that way when-""Dill, those were his own witnesses.""Well, Mr. Finch didn't act that way to Mayella and old man Ewellwhen he cross-examined them. The way that man called him 'boy' all thetime an' sneered at him, an' looked around at the jury every time heanswered-""Well, Dill, after all he's just a Negro.""I don't care one speck. It ain't right, somehow it ain't right todo 'em that way. Hasn't anybody got any business talkin' like that- itjust makes me sick.""That's just Mr. Gilmer's way, Dill, he does 'em all that way.
“谁，汤姆？”“那个老吉尔默先生那样对待他，对他说那么多可恶的话——”“迪尔，那是他的工作。唉，如果我们没有检察官——嗯，我想，我们就没有辩护律师了。”迪尔耐心地叹了口气。 “我全都知道，斯库特。就是他说话的语气让我恶心，真的恶心。”“迪尔，他应该那样做，他生气了——”“他没那样做——”“迪尔，那些是他自己的证人。”“嗯，芬奇先生盘问梅耶拉和老尤厄尔的时候没那样做。那家伙一直叫他‘小子’，还嘲笑他，每次回答问题都环顾陪审团——”“好吧，迪尔，毕竟他只是个黑人。”“我一点也不在乎。那样做不对，那样做就是不对。难道没有人应该那样说话吗——我就是恶心。”“迪尔，那只是吉尔默先生的作风，他总是那样做。”
　　You've never seen him get good'n down on one yet. Why, when- well,today Mr. Gilmer seemed to me like he wasn't half trying. They do'em all that way, most lawyers, I mean.""Mr. Finch doesn't.""He's not an example, Dill, he's-" I was trying to grope in mymemory for a sharp phrase of Miss Maudie Atkinson's. I had it: "He'sthe same in the courtroom as he is on the public streets.""That's not what I mean," said Dill.
你还没见过他好好教训过一个人呢。唉，当——唉，今天吉尔默先生在我看来好像根本没怎么用心。他们都是那样做的，我是说，大多数律师都是那样。”“芬奇先生不是。”“他不是个例，迪尔，他——”我努力在记忆中搜寻莫迪·阿特金森小姐说过的一句尖锐的话。我记得是：“他在法庭上和在大街上都一样。”“我不是这个意思，”迪尔说。
　　"I know what you mean, boy," said a voice behind us. We thought itcame from the tree-trunk, but it belonged to Mr. Dolphus Raymond. Hepeered around the trunk at us. "You aren't thin-hided, it just makesyou sick, doesn't it?"20"Come on round here, son, I got something that'll settle yourstomach."As Mr. Dolphus Raymond was an evil man I accepted his invitationreluctantly, but I followed Dill. Somehow, I didn't think Atticuswould like it if we became friendly with Mr. Raymond, and I knewAunt Alexandra wouldn't.
“我懂你的意思，孩子，”我们身后传来一个声音。我们以为是从树干里发出来的，但其实是多尔弗斯·雷蒙德先生的声音。他从树干后面偷偷地看着我们。“你不是胆小怕事，只是这东西让你恶心，对吧？”“过来吧，孩子，我这儿有东西能让你胃舒服点。”多尔弗斯·雷蒙德先生是个恶人，我勉强接受了他的邀请，但还是跟着迪尔去了。不知怎么的，我觉得阿蒂克斯不会喜欢我们和雷蒙德先生搞好关系，而且我知道亚历山德拉姑妈也不会喜欢。
　　"Here," he said, offering Dill his paper sack with straws in it.
“给你，”他说着，把装着吸管的纸袋递给迪尔。
　　"Take a good sip, it'll quieten you."Dill sucked on the straws, smiled, and pulled at length.
“喝一口，它会让你平静下来。”迪尔吮吸着吸管，笑了笑，然后又吸了一口。
　　"Hee hee," said Mr. Raymond, evidently taking delight incorrupting a child.
“嘻嘻，”雷蒙德先生说道，显然他很乐于教坏一个孩子。
　　"Dill, you watch out, now," I warned.
“迪尔，你现在要小心了，”我警告道。
　　Dill released the straws and grinned. "Scout, it's nothing butCoca-Cola."Mr. Raymond sat up against the tree-trunk. He had been lying onthe grass. "You little folks won't tell on me now, will you? It'd ruinmy reputation if you did.""You mean all you drink in that sack's Coca-Cola? Just plainCoca-Cola?""Yes ma'am," Mr. Raymond nodded. I liked his smell: it was ofleather, horses, cottonseed. He wore the only English riding boots Ihad ever seen. "That's all I drink, most of the time.""Then you just pretend you're half-? I beg your pardon, sir," Icaught myself. "I didn't mean to be-"Mr. Raymond chuckled, not at all offended, and I tried to frame adiscreet question: "Why do you do like you do?""Wh- oh yes, you mean why do I pretend? Well, it's very simple,"he said. "Some folks don't- like the way I live. Now I could say thehell with 'em, I don't care if they don't like it. I do say I don'tcare if they don't like it, right enough- but I don't say the hellwith 'em, see?"Dill and I said, "No sir.""I try to give 'em a reason, you see. It helps folks if they canlatch onto a reason. When I come to town, which is seldom, if Iweave a little and drink out of this sack, folks can say DolphusRaymond's in the clutches of whiskey- that's why he won't change hisways. He can't help himself, that's why he lives the way he does.""That ain't honest, Mr. Raymond, making yourself out badder'n youare already-""It ain't honest but it's mighty helpful to folks. Secretly, MissFinch, I'm not much of a drinker, but you see they could never,never understand that I live like I do because that's the way I wantto live."I had a feeling that I shouldn't be here listening to this sinfulman who had mixed children and didn't care who knew it, but he wasfascinating. I had never encountered a being who deliberatelyperpetrated fraud against himself. But why had he entrusted us withhis deepest secret? I asked him why.
迪尔松开吸管，咧嘴一笑。“斯库特，这不过是可口可乐。”雷蒙德先生靠着树干坐了起来。他刚才躺在草地上。“你们这帮小家伙现在不会告发我吧？要是告发了，我的名声可就毁了。”“你是说你们喝的那袋可口可乐全是？就只是纯可口可乐？”“是的，夫人，”雷蒙德先生点点头。我喜欢他身上的味道：皮革、马和棉籽的混合味。他穿着我见过的唯一一双英国马靴。“我大部分时间就喝那玩意儿。”“这么说，你就装作半——？对不起，先生，”我突然意识到。“我不是故意的——”雷蒙德轻笑一声，丝毫没有生气，于是我试着提出一个谨慎的问题：“你为什么这么做？”“为——哦，是的，你的意思是我为什么要假装？嗯，这很简单，”他说。 “有些人不喜欢我的生活方式。现在我可以说，管他们去他们的，我不在乎他们是否喜欢。我确实说过，我不在乎他们是否喜欢，没错——但我不会说管他们去他们的，明白吗？”迪尔和我回答说：“不，先生。”“你看，我尽量给他们一个理由。如果他们能抓住一个理由，那对他们有帮助。我进城的时候——虽然很少——如果我随便找点乐子，随便喝点酒，人们就会说多尔夫斯·雷蒙德沉迷于威士忌——所以他才不会改变自己的生活方式。他控制不住自己，所以他才过着那样的生活。”“雷蒙德先生，你这样说可不诚实，你把自己弄得比现在更糟——”“这不诚实，但对人们很有帮助。芬奇小姐，说实话，我不太……”酒鬼，但你知道，他们永远、永远不能理解我这样生活，因为那是我想要的生活方式。”我有一种感觉，我不应该在这里听这个有混血孩子的罪人说话，他不在乎别人知道，但他真的很迷人。 我从未见过一个会故意欺骗自己的人。但他为什么要把最深的秘密托付给我们呢？我问他为什么。
　　"Because you're children and you can understand it," he said, "andbecause I heard that one-"He jerked his head at Dill: "Things haven't caught up with thatone's instinct yet. Let him get a little older and he won't get sickand cry. Maybe things'll strike him as being- not quite right, say,but he won't cry, not when he gets a few years on him.""Cry about what, Mr. Raymond?" Dill's maleness was beginning toassert itself.
“因为你们还是孩子，你们能理解，”他说，“而且因为我听说——”他冲迪尔扬了扬头：“事情还没跟上那家伙的本能。等他长大一点，就不会生病哭了。也许他会觉得——比如说，事情不太对劲，但他不会哭，等他再长大几岁就不会了。”“哭什么，雷蒙德先生？”迪尔的男子气概开始显现。
　　"Cry about the simple hell people give other people- without eventhinking. Cry about the hell white people give colored folks,without even stopping to think that they're people, too.""Atticus says cheatin' a colored man is ten times worse thancheatin' a white man," I muttered. "Says it's the worst thing youcan do."Mr. Raymond said, "I don't reckon it's- Miss Jean Louise, youdon't know your pa's not a run-of-the-mill man, it'll take a few yearsfor that to sink in- you haven't seen enough of the world yet. Youhaven't even seen this town, but all you gotta do is step backinside the courthouse."Which reminded me that we were missing nearly all of Mr. Gilmer'scross-examination. I looked at the sun, and it was dropping fastbehind the store-tops on the west side of the square. Between twofires, I could not decide which I wanted to jump into: Mr. Raymondor the 5th Judicial Circuit Court. "C'mon, Dill," I said. "You allright, now?""Yeah. Glad t've metcha, Mr. Raymond, and thanks for the drink, itwas mighty settlin'."We raced back to the courthouse, up the steps, up two flights ofstairs, and edged our way along the balcony rail. Reverend Sykes hadsaved our seats.
“哭诉那些人给别人带来的简单痛苦——甚至不假思索。哭诉那些白人给有色人种带来的痛苦，甚至不想想他们也是人。”“阿蒂克斯说欺骗黑人比欺骗白人糟糕十倍，”我低声说道。“说这是你能做的最糟糕的事。”雷蒙德先生说：“我不认为这是——琼·路易丝小姐，你不知道你爸爸不是个普通人，你得过几年才能接受这个事实——你还没见识够世面。你甚至还没来得及看看这个小镇，但你只需要回到法院里就行了。”这让我想起，我们几乎错过了吉尔默先生的全部盘问。我看了看太阳，它正迅速落到广场西侧商店的屋顶后面。两难之间，我一时难以抉择：是去雷蒙德先生那儿，还是去第五巡回法院。“来吧，迪尔，”我说，“你现在还好吗？”“嗯。很高兴见到你，雷蒙德先生，谢谢你的酒，喝得真舒服。”我们飞奔回法院，上了台阶，又上了两层楼，沿着阳台栏杆挪了过去。赛克斯牧师给我们占了座位。
　　The courtroom was still, and again I wondered where the babies were.
法庭里一片寂静，我又一次想知道孩子们在哪里。
　　Judge Taylor's cigar was a brown speck in the center of his mouth; Mr.
泰勒法官的雪茄在他嘴巴中央变成了一个棕色的斑点；
　　Gilmer was writing on one of the yellow pads on his table, trying tooutdo the court reporter, whose hand was jerking rapidly. "Shoot," Imuttered, "we missed it."Atticus was halfway through his speech to the jury. He had evidentlypulled some papers from his briefcase that rested beside his chair,because they were on his table. Tom Robinson was toying with them.
吉尔默正用桌上的黄色便笺簿记着，想比法庭书记员写得更清楚，因为书记员的手正快速抽搐着。“该死，”我低声说，“我们没注意到。”阿蒂克斯正对陪审团进行陈述，显然他从椅子旁边的公文包里拿出了一些文件，因为这些文件就放在他的桌子上。汤姆·罗宾逊正在翻看着它们。
　　"…absence of any corroborative evidence, this man was indictedon a capital charge and is now on trial for his life…"I punched Jem. "How long's he been at it?""He's just gone over the evidence," Jem whispered, "and we'regonna win, Scout. I don't see how we can't. He's been at it 'bout fiveminutes. He made it as plain and easy as- well, as I'da explained itto you. You could've understood it, even.""Did Mr. Gilmer-?""Sh-h. Nothing new, just the usual. Hush now."We looked down again. Atticus was speaking easily, with the kindof detachment he used when he dictated a letter. He walked slowly upand down in front of the jury, and the jury seemed to be attentive:
“……没有任何确凿的证据，这个人被控死罪，现在正接受终身监禁的审判……”我给了杰姆一拳。“他讲了多久了？”“他刚刚把证据过一遍，”杰姆低声说，“我们会赢的，斯库特。我看我们怎么会赢。他讲了大概五分钟。他讲得再清楚不过了——嗯，就像我跟你解释的那样。你甚至都能听懂。”“吉尔默先生——？”“嘘——嘘。没什么新意，老一套。安静点。”我们又低下头。阿蒂克斯语气轻松，带着他口述信件时的那种超然。他在陪审团面前缓缓地走来走去，陪审团似乎很认真地听着：
　　their heads were up, and they followed Atticus's route with whatseemed to be appreciation. I guess it was because Atticus wasn't athunderer.
他们抬起头，沿着阿蒂克斯的路线走去，眼神里似乎带着赞赏。我猜是因为阿蒂克斯不是个雷神。
　　Atticus paused, then he did something he didn't ordinarily do. Heunhitched his watch and chain and placed them on the table, saying,"With the court's permission-"Judge Taylor nodded, and then Atticus did something I never sawhim do before or since, in public or in private: he unbuttoned hisvest, unbuttoned his collar, loosened his tie, and took off hiscoat. He never loosened a scrap of his clothing until he undressedat bedtime, and to Jem and me, this was the equivalent of him standingbefore us stark naked. We exchanged horrified glances.
阿蒂克斯顿了顿，然后做了一件他平常不做的事。他解下手表和表链，把它们放在桌子上，说道：“经法庭许可……”泰勒法官点了点头，然后阿蒂克斯做了一件我从未见过他做过的事，无论是在公开场合还是私下：他解开了背心的扣子，解开了衣领，松开了领带，脱掉了外套。直到睡觉前，他才脱掉衣服，而对杰姆和我来说，这相当于他一丝不挂地站在我们面前。我们交换了惊恐的眼神。
　　Atticus put his hands in his pockets, and as he returned to thejury, I saw his gold collar button and the tips of his pen andpencil winking in the light.
阿蒂克斯把手插进口袋，当他回到陪审团时，我看到他金色的领扣以及钢笔和铅笔的笔尖在灯光下闪闪发光。
　　"Gentlemen," he said. Jem and I again looked at each other:
“先生们，”他说。杰姆和我又互相看了一眼：
　　Atticus might have said, "Scout." His voice had lost its aridity,its detachment, and he was talking to the jury as if they were folkson the post office corner.
阿蒂克斯可能会说：“斯库特。”他的声音不再干涩，不再超然，他和陪审团说话的样子就好像他们是邮局街角的居民一样。
　　"Gentlemen," he was saying, "I shall be brief, but I would like touse my remaining time with you to remind you that this case is not adifficult one, it requires no minute sifting of complicated facts, butit does require you to be sure beyond all reasonable doubt as to theguilt of the defendant. To begin with, this case should never havecome to trial. This case is as simple as black and white.
“先生们，”他说道，“我的发言会很简短，但我想利用剩下的时间提醒你们，这个案子并不难，不需要对复杂的事实进行细致的筛选，但需要你们排除一切合理怀疑，确信被告有罪。首先，这个案子根本就不应该开庭审理。这个案子黑白分明，非常简单。”
　　"The state has not produced one iota of medical evidence to theeffect that the crime Tom Robinson is charged with ever took place. Ithas relied instead upon the testimony of two witnesses whoseevidence has not only been called into serious question oncross-examination, but has been flatly contradicted by thedefendant. The defendant is not guilty, but somebody in this courtroomis.
“控方没有提供任何医学证据证明汤姆·罗宾逊被指控的罪行确实发生过。控方仅依赖两名证人的证词，而这两名证人的证词不仅在交叉盘问中受到严重质疑，而且遭到被告的断然反驳。被告无罪，但法庭上的某个人有罪。”
　　"I have nothing but pity in my heart for the chief witness for thestate, but my pity does not extend so far as to her putting a man'slife at stake, which she has done in an effort to get rid of her ownguilt.
“我对国家首席证人只有怜悯之心，但我的怜悯并不延伸到她为了摆脱自己的罪责而将一个人的生命置于危险之中。
　　"I say guilt, gentlemen, because it was guilt that motivated her.
“先生们，我说内疚，因为正是内疚促使了她这么做。
　　She has committed no crime, she has merely broken a rigid andtime-honored code of our society, a code so severe that whoever breaksit is hounded from our midst as unfit to live with. She is thevictim of cruel poverty and ignorance, but I cannot pity her: she iswhite. She knew full well the enormity of her offense, but because herdesires were stronger than the code she was breaking, she persisted inbreaking it. She persisted, and her subsequent reaction is somethingthat all of us have known at one time or another. She did somethingevery child has done- she tried to put the evidence of her offenseaway from her. But in this case she was no child hiding stolencontraband: she struck out at her victim- of necessity she must puthim away from her- he must be removed from her presence, from thisworld. She must destroy the evidence of her offense.
她没有犯罪，她只是破坏了我们社会一套僵硬而悠久的准则。这套准则极其严厉，任何破坏它的人都会被驱逐出我们社会，被视为不配与之共存。她是残酷贫困和无知的受害者，但我无法同情她：她是白人。她深知自己罪行的严重性，但因为她的欲望比她所破坏的准则更强烈，她坚持要破坏它。她坚持不懈，而她随后的反应是我们所有人都曾经历过的。她做了每个孩子都会做的事——她试图掩盖犯罪证据。但在这种情况下，她不再是藏匿偷来的违禁品的孩子：她向受害者发起了攻击——她必须把他从她身边带走——他必须从她面前消失，从这个世界消失。她必须销毁犯罪证据。
　　"What was the evidence of her offense? Tom Robinson, a humanbeing. She must put Tom Robinson away from her. Tom Robinson was herdaily reminder of what she did. What did she do? She tempted a Negro.
她犯罪的证据是什么？汤姆·鲁宾逊，一个人。她必须把汤姆·鲁宾逊从她身边赶走。汤姆·鲁宾逊每天都在提醒她她做过的事。她做了什么？她引诱了一个黑人。
　　"She was white, and she tempted a Negro. She did something that inour society is unspeakable: she kissed a black man. Not an oldUncle, but a strong young Negro man. No code mattered to her beforeshe broke it, but it came crashing down on her afterwards.
她是个白人，却引诱了一个黑人。她做了一件在我们社会里难以启齿的事：她亲吻了一个黑人。不是一位老叔叔，而是一个强壮的年轻黑人。在她违反任何准则之前，她都不在乎，但事后，准则却让她付出了沉重的代价。
　　"Her father saw it, and the defendant has testified as to hisremarks. What did her father do? We don't know, but there iscircumstantial evidence to indicate that Mayella Ewell was beatensavagely by someone who led almost exclusively with his left. We doknow in part what Mr. Ewell did: he did what any God-fearing,persevering, respectable white man would do under the circumstances-he swore out a warrant, no doubt signing it with his left hand, andTom Robinson now sits before you, having taken the oath with theonly good hand he possesses- his right hand.
她父亲亲眼目睹了这一切，被告也已就其言论作证。她父亲做了什么？我们不得而知，但有间接证据表明，梅耶拉·尤厄尔遭到了几乎只用左手指挥的人的野蛮殴打。我们大致了解尤厄尔先生做了什么：他做了任何一个敬畏上帝、坚韧不拔、受人尊敬的白人在当时情况下都会做的事——他宣誓签发逮捕令，毫无疑问是用左手签的。而汤姆·鲁宾逊现在坐在你们面前，用他唯一一只好手——右手——宣誓。
　　"And so a quiet, respectable, humble Negro who had the unmitigatedtemerity to 'feel sorry' for a white woman has had to put his wordagainst two white people's. I need not remind you of theirappearance and conduct on the stand- you saw them for yourselves.
“于是，一个文静、体面、谦逊的黑人，竟然如此大胆地‘同情’一位白人妇女，却不得不用自己的话来反驳两个白人。我不需要提醒你们他们在证人席上的外表和行为——你们亲眼看到了。”
　　The witnesses for the state, with the exception of the sheriff ofMaycomb County, have presented themselves to you gentlemen, to thiscourt, in the cynical confidence that their testimony would not bedoubted, confident that you gentlemen would go along with them onthe assumption- the evil assumption- that all Negroes lie, thatall Negroes are basically immoral beings, that all Negro men arenot to be trusted around our women, an assumption one associateswith minds of their caliber.
除了梅科姆县的治安官之外，州政府的所有证人都已经来到了你们先生们面前，来到了法庭，他们满怀信心地认为他们的证词不容置疑，相信你们先生们会认同他们的假设——邪恶的假设——即所有黑人都会撒谎，所有黑人基本上都是不道德的生物，所有黑人男性都不值得信任与我们的女人在一起，这种假设与他们这种水平的人的想法有关。
　　"Which, gentlemen, we know is in itself a lie as black as TomRobinson's skin, a lie I do not have to point out to you. You know thetruth, and the truth is this: some Negroes lie, some Negroes areimmoral, some Negro men are not to be trusted around women- black orwhite. But this is a truth that applies to the human race and to noparticular race of men. There is not a person in this courtroom whohas never told a lie, who has never done an immoral thing, and thereis no man living who has never looked upon a woman without desire."Atticus paused and took out his handkerchief. Then he took off hisglasses and wiped them, and we saw another "first": we had neverseen him sweat- he was one of those men whose faces never perspired,but now it was shining tan.
“先生们，我们知道这本身就是一个谎言，就像汤姆·罗宾逊的皮肤一样黑，我无需向你们指出。你们知道真相，真相是这样的：有些黑人会撒谎，有些黑人不道德，有些黑人男性在女人面前不值得信任——无论黑人还是白人。但这个真相适用于人类，而不是任何特定种族。在这个法庭上，没有一个人从未撒过谎，没有一个人从未做过不道德的事，也没有一个活着的男人从未对女人产生过欲望。”阿蒂克斯停顿了一下，掏出手帕。然后他摘下眼镜擦了擦，我们看到了另一个“第一次”：我们从未见过他流汗——他是那种脸上从不流汗的人，但现在他的脸却晒成了闪亮的棕褐色。
　　"One more thing, gentlemen, before I quit. Thomas Jefferson oncesaid that all men are created equal, a phrase that the Yankees and thedistaff side of the Executive branch in Washington are fond of hurlingat us. There is a tendency in this year of grace, 1935, for certainpeople to use this phrase out of context, to satisfy all conditions.
“先生们，在我结束之前，还有一件事。托马斯·杰斐逊曾经说过，人人生而平等，而北方佬和华盛顿行政部门的女性官员们却喜欢用这句话来攻击我们。在1935年这个公元年，有些人有一种断章取义的倾向，为了满足所有条件而滥用这句话。
　　The most ridiculous example I can think of is that the people whorun public education promote the stupid and idle along with theindustrious- because all men are created equal, educators will gravelytell you, the children left behind suffer terrible feelings ofinferiority. We know all men are not created equal in the sense somepeople would have us believe- some people are smarter than others,some people have more opportunity because they're born with it, somemen make more money than others, some ladies make better cakes thanothers- some people are born gifted beyond the normal scope of mostmen.
我能想到的最荒谬的例子是，负责公共教育的人把愚昧懒惰的人和勤奋的人一起提拔——因为人人生而平等，教育工作者会严肃地告诉你，落后的孩子会遭受可怕的自卑感。我们知道，并非所有人都像某些人想让我们相信的那样生而平等——有些人比其他人更聪明，有些人天生就拥有更多机会，有些男人比其他人赚得更多，有些女人做的蛋糕比其他人更好——有些人天生就拥有超出大多数男人正常水平的天赋。
　　"But there is one way in this country in which all men are createdequal- there is one human institution that makes a pauper the equal ofa Rockefeller, the stupid man the equal of an Einstein, and theignorant man the equal of any college president. That institution,gentlemen, is a court. It can be the Supreme Court of the UnitedStates or the humblest J.P. court in the land, or this honorable courtwhich you serve. Our courts have their faults, as does any humaninstitution, but in this country our courts are the great levelers,and in our courts all men are created equal.
但在这个国家，有一种方式使人人生而平等——有一种人类制度，它使穷人与洛克菲勒平等，使愚人与爱因斯坦平等，使无知者与任何大学校长平等。先生们，这个制度就是法院。它可以是美国最高法院，也可以是这个国家最卑微的治安法庭，或者是你们所服务的这个光荣的法院。我们的法院有其缺陷，任何人类制度都有缺陷，但在这个国家，我们的法院是伟大的平等者，在我们的法院，人人生而平等。
　　"I'm no idealist to believe firmly in the integrity of our courtsand in the jury system- that is no ideal to me, it is a living,working reality. Gentlemen, a court is no better than each man ofyou sitting before me on this jury. A court is only as sound as itsjury, and a jury is only as sound as the men who make it up. I amconfident that you gentlemen will review without passion theevidence you have heard, come to a decision, and restore thisdefendant to his family. In the name of God, do your duty."Atticus's voice had dropped, and as he turned away from the juryhe said something I did not catch. He said it more to himself thanto the court. I punched Jem. "What'd he say?""'In the name of God, believe him,' I think that's what he said."Dill suddenly reached over me and tugged at Jem. "Looka yonder!"We followed his finger with sinking hearts. Calpurnia was making herway up the middle aisle, walking straight toward Atticus.
“我不是理想主义者，不会坚信我们法院和陪审制度的公正——那对我来说并非理想，而是活生生的现实。先生们，法院并不比坐在我面前的各位陪审员更好。法院的健全取决于陪审团，而陪审团的健全也取决于组成陪审团的人员。我相信，各位先生会冷静地审查你们听到的证据，做出裁决，让这位被告回到他的家人身边。看在上帝的份上，履行你们的职责吧。”阿蒂克斯的声音低了下去，他转身离开陪审团时说了些什么，我没听清。他更像是自言自语，而不是对法庭说的。我给了杰姆一拳。“他说了什么？”“‘看在上帝的份上，相信他！’我想他是这么说的。”迪尔突然越过我，拉了拉杰姆。“看那边！”我们顺着他的手指望去，心沉了下去。卡尔普尼亚沿着中间的过道走去，径直向阿蒂克斯走去。
　　21She stopped shyly at the railing and waited to get Judge Taylor'sattention. She was in a fresh apron and she carried an envelope in herhand.
21她害羞地停在栏杆旁，等待泰勒法官的注意。她系着一条新围裙，手里拿着一个信封。
　　Judge Taylor saw her and said, "It's Calpurnia, isn't it?""Yes sir," she said. "Could I just pass this note to Mr. Finch,please sir? It hasn't got anything to do with- with the trial."Judge Taylor nodded and Atticus took the envelope from Calpurnia. Heopened it, read its contents and said, "Judge, I- this note is from mysister. She says my children are missing, haven't turned up sincenoon… I… could you-""I know where they are, Atticus." Mr. Underwood spoke up. "They'reright up yonder in the colored balcony- been there since preciselyone-eighteen P.M."Our father turned around and looked up. "Jem, come down from there,"he called. Then he said something to the Judge we didn't hear. Weclimbed across Reverend Sykes and made our way to the staircase.
泰勒法官看到她，说道：“是卡尔珀尼亚，对吧？”“是的，先生，”她说。“先生，请问能把这张纸条交给芬奇先生吗？这和……和审判无关。”泰勒法官点点头，阿蒂克斯从卡尔珀尼亚手中接过信封。他打开信封，读了里面的内容，说道：“法官，我……这张纸条是我姐姐写的。她说我的孩子们失踪了，从中午起就没再出现过……我……你能……”“我知道他们在哪儿，阿蒂克斯。”安德伍德先生开口说道。“他们就在那边的彩色阳台上——从下午一点十八分就在那里。”我们的父亲转过身，抬头望去。“杰姆，从那里下来，”他喊道。然后他对法官说了些什么，我们没听见。我们从赛克斯牧师的背上跨过去，朝楼梯走去。
　　Atticus and Calpurnia met us downstairs. Calpurnia looked peeved,but Atticus looked exhausted.
阿蒂克斯和卡尔普尼亚在楼下迎接我们。卡尔普尼亚看上去有些恼火，而阿蒂克斯则显得疲惫不堪。
　　Jem was jumping in excitement. "We've won, haven't we?""I've no idea," said Atticus shortly. "You've been here allafternoon? Go home with Calpurnia and get your supper- and stay home.""Aw, Atticus, let us come back," pleaded Jem. "Please let us hearthe verdict, please sir.""The jury might be out and back in a minute, we don't know-" butwe could tell Atticus was relenting. "Well, you've heard it all, soyou might as well hear the rest. Tell you what, you all can comeback when you've eaten your supper- eat slowly, now, you won't missanything important- and if the jury's still out, you can wait with us.
杰姆兴奋得跳了起来。“我们赢了，是不是？”“我不知道，”阿蒂克斯简短地说。“你整个下午都在这里？跟卡尔珀尼亚回家吃晚饭——待在家里。”“哎呀，阿蒂克斯，我们回去吧，”杰姆恳求道。“先生，请让我们听听判决结果吧。”“陪审团可能一会儿就出来又回来了，我们不知道——”但我们看得出来阿蒂克斯正在让步。“好了，你们都听完了，不如听听剩下的。跟你们说，你们吃完晚饭再回来——慢慢吃，别错过任何重要的事情——如果陪审团还没出来，你们可以和我们一起等。”
　　But I expect it'll be over before you get back.""You think they'll acquit him that fast?" asked Jem.
但我希望你回来之前一切都会结束。”“你认为他们会这么快宣告他无罪吗？”杰姆问。
　　Atticus opened his mouth to answer, but shut it and left us.
阿提克斯张嘴想回答，但又闭上了嘴，离开了我们。
　　I prayed that Reverend Sykes would save our seats for us, butstopped praying when I remembered that people got up and left indroves when the jury was out- tonight, they'd overrun the drugstore,the O.K. Cafe and the hotel, that is, unless they had brought theirsuppers too.
我祈祷赛克斯牧师能为我们保留座位，但当我记起人们在陪审团出庭后成群结队地离开时，我就停止了祈祷——今晚，他们占领了药店、OK 咖啡馆和酒店，除非他们也带了晚餐。
　　Calpurnia marched us home: "-skin every one of you alive, the veryidea, you children listenin' to all that! Mister Jem, don't you knowbetter'n to take your little sister to that trial? Miss Alexandra'llabsolutely have a stroke of paralysis when she finds out! Ain'tfittin' for children to hear…"The streetlights were on, and we glimpsed Calpurnia's indignantprofile as we passed beneath them. "Mister Jem, I thought you wasgettin' some kinda head on your shoulders- the very idea, she's yourlittle sister! The very idea, sir! You oughta be perfectly ashamedof yourself- ain't you got any sense at all?"I was exhilarated. So many things had happened so fast I felt itwould take years to sort them out, and now here was Calpurnia givingher precious Jem down the country- what new marvels would theevening bring?
卡尔珀尼亚催促我们回家：“——活剥你们所有人的皮，就凭这个主意，你们这些孩子都在听这些！杰姆先生，你难道不知道最好把你的小妹妹带去受审吗？亚历山德拉小姐要是知道了，肯定会中风的！这话不该给小孩子听……”路灯亮着，我们从灯下走过时，瞥见了卡尔珀尼亚愤愤不平的侧影。“杰姆先生，我还以为你有点儿自责呢——就凭这个主意，她可是你的小妹妹！就凭这个主意，先生！你应该为自己感到羞耻——你难道一点儿脑子都没有吗？”我兴奋极了。这么多事发生得这么快，我感觉要花好几年才能理清头绪，而现在卡尔珀尼亚却要把她心爱的杰姆带到乡下去——今晚又会带来什么新的奇观呢？
　　Jem was chuckling. "Don't you want to hear about it, Cal?""Hush your mouth, sir! When you oughta be hangin' your head in shameyou go along laughin'-" Calpurnia revived a series of rusty threatsthat moved Jem to little remorse, and she sailed up the front stepswith her classic, "If Mr. Finch don't wear you out, I will- get inthat house, sir!"Jem went in grinning, and Calpurnia nodded tacit consent to havingDill in to supper. "You all call Miss Rachel right now and tell herwhere you are," she told him. "She's run distracted lookin' for you-you watch out she don't ship you back to Meridian first thing in themornin'."Aunt Alexandra met us and nearly fainted when Calpurnia told herwhere we were. I guess it hurt her when we told her Atticus said wecould go back, because she didn't say a word during supper. She justrearranged food on her plate, looking at it sadly while Calpurniaserved Jem, Dill and me with a vengeance. Calpurnia poured milk,dished out potato salad and ham, muttering, "'shamed of yourselves,"in varying degrees of intensity. "Now you all eat slow," was her finalcommand.
杰姆咯咯地笑着。“卡尔，你不想听听吗？”“闭嘴，先生！你本该羞愧地低着头，却偏偏跟着笑——”卡尔珀尼亚又重复了一连串粗鲁的威胁，杰姆丝毫没有感到懊悔，她大步走上前台阶，发出她那套经典台词：“如果芬奇先生不把你累垮，我就——进那栋房子，先生！”杰姆咧嘴笑着走了进去，卡尔珀尼亚默许迪尔来吃晚饭。“你们现在就给雷切尔小姐打电话，告诉她你们在哪儿，”她告诉他。“她跑来跑去找你们——小心别让她明天一早就把你们送回默里迪恩。”亚历山德拉姑妈遇见了我们，卡尔珀尼亚告诉她我们在哪里时，她差点晕过去。我想，当我们告诉她阿蒂克斯说我们可以回去的时候，她一定很伤心，因为晚饭时她一句话也没说。她只是重新整理了一下盘子里的食物，悲伤地看着，而卡尔普尼亚则怒气冲冲地为杰姆、迪尔和我服务。卡尔普尼亚倒了牛奶，端上土豆沙拉和火腿，嘴里低声嘟囔着：“真丢脸。”语气强弱不一。“现在你们都慢慢吃吧。”这是她最后的命令。
　　Reverend Sykes had saved our places. We were surprised to findthat we had been gone nearly an hour, and were equally surprised tofind the courtroom exactly as we had left it, with minor changes:
赛克斯牧师为我们保留了座位。我们惊讶地发现，我们已经离开了将近一个小时，同样惊讶的是，法庭和我们离开时一模一样，只有一些细微的变化：
　　the jury box was empty, the defendant was gone; Judge Taylor hadbeen gone, but he reappeared as we were seating ourselves.
陪审席空了，被告走了；泰勒法官也走了，但当我们就座时他又出现了。
　　"Nobody's moved, hardly," said Jem. ...
　　"They moved around some when the jury went out," said ReverendSykes. "The menfolk down there got the womenfolk their suppers, andthey fed their babies.""How long have they been out?" asked Jem.
“陪审团出去的时候，他们四处走动，”赛克斯牧师说。“那里的男人们给女人们准备了晚餐，还给她们的孩子喂了奶。”“他们出去多久了？”杰姆问。
　　"'bout thirty minutes. Mr. Finch and Mr. Gilmer did some moretalkin', and Judge Taylor charged the jury.""How was he?" asked Jem.
“大约三十分钟。芬奇先生和吉尔默先生又谈了一会儿，然后泰勒法官向陪审团发出指示。”“他怎么样？”杰姆问。
　　"What say? Oh, he did right well. I ain't complainin' one bit- hewas mighty fair-minded. He sorta said if you believe this, then you'llhave to return one verdict, but if you believe this, you'll have toreturn another one. I thought he was leanin' a little to our side-"Reverend Sykes scratched his head.
“怎么说？哦，他做得很好。我一点也不抱怨——他非常公正。他好像说，如果你相信这个，你就得做出一个判决；但如果你相信那个，你就得做出另一个判决。我觉得他有点倾向于我们——”赛克斯牧师挠了挠头。
　　Jem smiled. "He's not supposed to lean, Reverend, but don't fret,we've won it," he said wisely. "Don't see how any jury could convicton what we heard-""Now don't you be so confident, Mr. Jem, I ain't ever seen anyjury decide in favor of a colored man over a white man…" But Jemtook exception to Reverend Sykes, and we were subjected to a lengthyreview of the evidence with Jem's ideas on the law regarding rape:
杰姆笑了。“牧师，他不应该倾斜，不过别担心，我们赢了，”他明智地说。“我不明白陪审团怎么会根据我们听到的判决定罪——”“别这么自信，杰姆先生，我从来没见过哪个陪审团判决黑人胜过白人……”但杰姆对赛克斯牧师的说法表示异议，于是我们被迫对证据进行了冗长的审查，并结合杰姆对强奸法的看法：
　　it wasn't rape if she let you, but she had to be eighteen- in Alabama,that is- and Mayella was nineteen. Apparently you had to kick andholler, you had to be overpowered and stomped on, preferably knockedstone cold. If you were under eighteen, you didn't have to gothrough all this.
如果她允许你，那就不算强奸，但她必须年满十八岁——在阿拉巴马州是这样——而梅耶拉才十九岁。显然，你必须又踢又叫，必须被制服、踩踏，最好是被打晕。如果你未满十八岁，就不用经历这一切。
　　"Mr. Jem," Reverend Sykes demurred, "this ain't a polite thing forlittle ladies to hear…""Aw, she doesn't know what we're talkin' about," said Jem. "Scout,this is too old for you, ain't it?""It most certainly is not, I know every word you're saying." PerhapsI was too convincing, because Jem hushed and never discussed thesubject again.
“杰姆先生，”赛克斯牧师反驳道，“这种话对小姑娘来说可不是什么礼貌的事……”“哎呀，她根本不知道我们在说什么，”杰姆说。“斯库特，这对你来说太老套了，对吧？”“绝对不是，你说的每一个字我都懂。”也许我说得太有说服力了，杰姆闭上了嘴，再也没提这个话题。
　　"What time is it, Reverend?" he asked.
“牧师，现在几点了？”他问道。
　　"Gettin' on toward eight."I looked down and saw Atticus strolling around with his hands in hispockets: he made a tour of the windows, then walked by the railingover to the jury box. He looked in it, inspected Judge Taylor on histhrone, then went back to where he started. I caught his eye and wavedto him. He acknowledged my salute with a nod, and resumed his tour.
“快八点了。”我低头看见阿蒂克斯双手插在口袋里，四处走动：他巡视了一下窗户，然后沿着栏杆走到陪审席。他往里看了一眼，又打量了坐在法官席上的泰勒法官，然后又回到了原地。我和他目光相遇，向他挥了挥手。他点点头回应了我的敬礼，然后继续巡视。
　　Mr. Gilmer was standing at the windows talking to Mr. Underwood.
吉尔默先生站在窗边和安德伍德先生交谈。
　　Bert, the court reporter, was chain-smoking: he sat back with his feeton the table.
法庭书记员伯特正在连续抽烟：他向后靠着，双脚搁在桌子上。
　　But the officers of the court, the ones present- Atticus, Mr.
但法庭上的官员，在场的人——阿提克斯，先生。
　　Gilmer, Judge Taylor sound asleep, and Bert, were the only oneswhose behavior seemed normal. I had never seen a packed courtroom sostill. Sometimes a baby would cry out fretfully, and a child wouldscurry out, but the grown people sat as if they were in church. In thebalcony, the Negroes sat and stood around us with biblical patience.
只有吉尔默、熟睡的泰勒法官和伯特举止正常。我从未见过挤满人的法庭如此安静。有时，婴儿会焦躁地哭喊，小孩会匆匆跑出法庭，但大人们都像在教堂里一样坐着。在阳台上，黑人在我们周围坐坐站站，有着圣经般的耐心。
　　The old courthouse clock suffered its preliminary strain andstruck the hour, eight deafening bongs that shook our bones.
法院的老钟承受着最初的压力，敲响了整点，八声震耳欲聋的钟声震得我们的骨头都颤抖了。
　　When it bonged eleven times I was past feeling: tired fromfighting sleep, I allowed myself a short nap against ReverendSykes's comfortable arm and shoulder. I jerked awake and made anhonest effort to remain so, by looking down and concentrating on theheads below: there were sixteen bald ones, fourteen men that couldpass for redheads, forty heads varying between brown and black, and- Iremembered something Jem had once explained to me when he went througha brief period of psychical research: he said if enough people- astadium full, maybe- were to concentrate on one thing, such as settinga tree afire in the woods, that the tree would ignite of its ownaccord. I toyed with the idea of asking everyone below toconcentrate on setting Tom Robinson free, but thought if they wereas tired as I, it wouldn't work.
门响了十一次，我终于感觉筋疲力尽，强忍着睡意，靠在赛克斯牧师舒适的手臂和肩膀上小憩了一会儿。我猛地惊醒，努力让自己保持清醒，低头看着下面的人头：有十六个秃头，十四个看起来像红头发的人，四十个棕色和黑色的人头，还有——我记得杰姆在做一段短暂的心灵研究时跟我解释过一件事：他说，如果足够多的人——也许挤满一个体育场——专注于一件事，比如在树林里点一棵树，那棵树就会自动燃烧起来。我琢磨着要不要让下面的每个人都集中精力去救汤姆·鲁宾逊，但又想，如果他们和我一样累，那就行不通了。
　　Dill was sound asleep, his head on Jem's shoulder, and Jem wasquiet.
迪尔睡得很香，他的头靠在杰姆的肩膀上，杰姆很安静。
　　"Ain't it a long time?" I asked him.
“不是很长一段时间吗？”我问他。
　　"Sure is, Scout," he said happily.
“当然可以，斯库特，”他高兴地说。
　　"Well, from the way you put it, it'd just take five minutes."Jem raised his eyebrows. "There are things you don't understand," hesaid, and I was too weary to argue.
“嗯，听你这么说，只需要五分钟。”杰姆扬了扬眉毛。“有些事你不明白。”他说，而我太累了，没法再争论了。
　　But I must have been reasonably awake, or I would not havereceived the impression that was creeping into me. It was not unlikeone I had last winter, and I shivered, though the night was hot. Thefeeling grew until the atmosphere in the courtroom was exactly thesame as a cold February morning, when the mockingbirds were still, andthe carpenters had stopped hammering on Miss Maudie's new house, andevery wood door in the neighborhood was shut as tight as the doorsof the Radley Place. A deserted, waiting, empty street, and thecourtroom was packed with people. A steaming summer night was nodifferent from a winter morning. Mr. Heck Tate, who had entered thecourtroom and was talking to Atticus, might have been wearing his highboots and lumber jacket. Atticus had stopped his tranquil journeyand had put his foot onto the bottom rung of a chair; as he listenedto what Mr. Tate was saying, he ran his hand slowly up and down histhigh. I expected Mr. Tate to say any minute, "Take him, Mr.
但我当时肯定还算清醒，否则就不会感觉到那种悄悄涌上心头的感觉。这感觉跟我去年冬天的经历很像，尽管夜里很热，我还是打了个寒颤。这种感觉越来越强烈，法庭里的气氛变得像二月一个寒冷的早晨一样，嘲鸫静默无声，木匠们也停止了敲打莫迪小姐的新房子，街区里的每一扇木门都像拉德利家的门一样紧紧地关着。街道空荡荡的，等待着，法庭里挤满了人。闷热的夏夜和冬日的早晨没什么两样。走进法庭和阿蒂克斯说话的赫克·泰特先生，仿佛穿着他的高筒靴和伐木工夹克。阿蒂克斯停下了平静的脚步，把脚放在一把椅子的底部横档上；他一边听着泰特先生说话，一边用手慢慢地上下抚摸着自己的大腿。我以为泰特先生随时会说：“带他走吧，先生。”
　　Finch…"But Mr. Tate said, "This court will come to order," in a voicethat rang with authority, and the heads below us jerked up. Mr. Tateleft the room and returned with Tom Robinson. He steered Tom to hisplace beside Atticus, and stood there. Judge Taylor had roused himselfto sudden alertness and was sitting up straight, looking at theempty jury box.
芬奇……”但是泰特先生用一种充满权威的声音说道，“本庭将保持秩序。”我们下面的人猛地抬起头来。泰特先生离开房间，带着汤姆·鲁宾逊回来了。他把汤姆带到阿蒂克斯旁边的座位上，然后站在那里。泰勒法官突然警觉起来，直挺挺地坐着，看着空荡荡的陪审席。
　　What happened after that had a dreamlike quality: in a dream I sawthe jury return, moving like underwater swimmers, and Judge Taylor'svoice came from far away and was tiny. I saw something only a lawyer'schild could be expected to see, could be expected to watch for, and itwas like watching Atticus walk into the street, raise a rifle to hisshoulder and pull the trigger, but watching all the time knowingthat the gun was empty.
之后发生的事情宛如梦境：在梦中，我看到陪审团回来了，像水下游泳者一样游动，泰勒法官的声音从遥远的地方传来，非常细微。我看到了只有律师的孩子才能看到、才能留意的东西，就像看着阿蒂克斯走到街上，举起步枪，扣动扳机，却始终心知枪里没有子弹。
　　A jury never looks at a defendant it has convicted, and when thisjury came in, not one of them looked at Tom Robinson. The foremanhanded a piece of paper to Mr. Tate who handed it to the clerk whohanded it to the judge…I shut my eyes. Judge Taylor was polling the jury: "Guilty…guilty… guilty… guilty…" I peeked at Jem: his hands were whitefrom gripping the balcony rail, and his shoulders jerked as if each"guilty" was a separate stab between them.
陪审团从来不会看已经定罪的被告，而当这支陪审团进来的时候，没有一个人看汤姆·罗宾逊一眼。陪审团主席递给泰特先生一张纸，泰特先生又递给书记员，书记员又递给法官……我闭上了眼睛。泰勒法官正在审阅陪审团：“有罪……有罪……有罪……”我偷偷看了杰姆一眼：他的双手紧紧抓住阳台栏杆，脸色发白，肩膀抽搐着，仿佛每个“有罪”都像是在他们之间捅了一刀。
　　Judge Taylor was saying something. His gavel was in his fist, but hewasn't using it. Dimly, I saw Atticus pushing papers from the tableinto his briefcase. He snapped it shut, went to the court reporter andsaid something, nodded to Mr. Gilmer, and then went to Tom Robinsonand whispered something to him. Atticus put his hand on Tom's shoulderas he whispered. Atticus took his coat off the back of his chair andpulled it over his shoulder. Then he left the courtroom, but not byhis usual exit. He must have wanted to go home the short way,because he walked quickly down the middle aisle toward the south exit.
泰勒法官正在说着什么。他手里攥着法槌，却没用。我隐约看到阿蒂克斯把桌上的文件塞进公文包里。他啪的一声关上公文包，走到法庭书记员面前说了些什么，又向吉尔默先生点了点头，然后走到汤姆·罗宾逊身边，低声说了些什么。阿蒂克斯一边说着，一边把手放在汤姆的肩膀上。阿蒂克斯从椅背上取下外套，披在肩上。然后他离开了法庭，但不是走他惯常的出口。他一定是想抄近路回家，因为他快步沿着中间的过道朝南出口走去。
　　I followed the top of his head as he made his way to the door. Hedid not look up.
我顺着他的头顶望向门口。他没有抬头。
　　Someone was punching me, but I was reluctant to take my eyes fromthe people below us, and from the image of Atticus's lonely walkdown the aisle.
有人在打我，但我却不愿意将目光从下面的人身上移开，也不愿意将目光从阿蒂克斯孤独地走过过道的画面上移开。
　　"Miss Jean Louise?"I looked around. They were standing. All around us and in thebalcony on the opposite wall, the Negroes were getting to theirfeet. Reverend Sykes's voice was as distant as Judge Taylor's:
“琼·路易丝小姐？”我环顾四周。她们都站着。我们周围，以及对面墙边的阳台上，黑人都站了起来。赛克斯牧师的声音像泰勒法官的声音一样遥远：
　　"Miss Jean Louise, stand up. Your father's passin'."22It was Jem's turn to cry. His face was streaked with angry tearsas we made our way through the cheerful crowd. "It ain't right," hemuttered, all the way to the corner of the square where we foundAtticus waiting. Atticus was standing under the street light lookingas though nothing had happened: his vest was buttoned, his collarand tie were neatly in place, his watch-chain glistened, he was hisimpassive self again.
“琼·路易丝小姐，站起来。你父亲要走了。”22轮到杰姆哭了。我们穿过欢快的人群，杰姆的脸上挂满了愤怒的泪水。“这不对劲，”他一路嘟囔着，走到广场拐角处，我们发现阿蒂克斯正在等着他。阿蒂克斯站在路灯下，仿佛什么事都没发生过：他的背心扣得紧紧的，衣领和领带也整整齐齐，表链闪闪发光，他又恢复了平静的面容。
　　"It ain't right, Atticus," said Jem. ...
　　"No son, it's not right."We walked home.
“不，儿子，这不对。”我们走回家。
　　Aunt Alexandra was waiting up. She was in her dressing gown, and Icould have sworn she had on her corset underneath it. "I'm sorry,brother," she murmured. Having never heard her call Atticus"brother" before, I stole a glance at Jem, but he was not listening.
亚历山德拉姑妈正在等我。她穿着睡袍，我敢发誓她里面还穿着紧身胸衣。“对不起，哥哥，”她低声说道。我以前从未听过她叫阿蒂克斯“哥哥”，于是偷偷看了一眼杰姆，但他根本没在听。
　　He would look up at Atticus, then down at the floor, and I wondered ifhe thought Atticus somehow responsible for Tom Robinson's conviction.
他会抬头看着阿蒂克斯，然后低头看着地板，我想知道他是否认为阿蒂克斯对汤姆·鲁宾逊的定罪负有某种责任。
　　"Is he all right?" Aunty asked, indicating Jem.
“他还好吗？”姑姑指着杰姆问道。
　　"He'll be so presently," said Atticus. "It was a little too strongfor him." Our father sighed. "I'm going to bed," he said. "If Idon't wake up in the morning, don't call me.""I didn't think it wise in the first place to let them-""This is their home, sister," said Atticus. "We've made it thisway for them, they might as well learn to cope with it.""But they don't have to go to the courthouse and wallow in it-""It's just as much Maycomb County as missionary teas.""Atticus-" Aunt Alexandra's eyes were anxious. "You are the lastperson I thought would turn bitter over this.""I'm not bitter, just tired. I'm going to bed.""Atticus-" said Jem bleakly.
“他很快就会好起来的，”阿蒂克斯说。“对他来说有点太烈了。”父亲叹了口气。“我要睡觉了，”他说。“如果我明天早上醒不过来，就别叫我了。”“我一开始就觉得让他们——”“姐姐，这是他们的家，”阿蒂克斯说。“我们把他们弄成这样，他们最好学会适应。”“但他们不用去法院，也不用沉湎于其中——”“这跟梅科姆县没什么两样，就像传教士的茶会一样。”“阿蒂克斯——”亚历山德拉姑妈的眼神里充满了焦虑。“我最没想到你会因为这件事而心怀怨恨。”“我不心怀怨恨，只是累了。我要睡觉了。”“阿蒂克斯——”杰姆沮丧地说。
　　He turned in the doorway. "What, son?""How could they do it, how could they?""I don't know, but they did it. They've done it before and theydid it tonight and they'll do it again and when they do it- seems thatonly children weep. Good night."But things are always better in the morning. Atticus rose at hisusual ungodly hour and was in the livingroom behind the MobileRegister when we stumbled in. Jem's morning face posed the questionhis sleepy lips struggled to ask.
他转身走进门口。“怎么了，儿子？”“他们怎么能这么做？他们怎么能这么做？”“我不知道，但他们确实这么做了。他们以前做过，今晚也做过，还会再做，而且他们做的时候——好像只有小孩子才会哭。晚安。”不过早上情况总是会好转。阿蒂克斯照例早早起床，我们踉踉跄跄地走进来时，他正待在客厅里流动登记处后面。杰姆清晨的表情，让他困倦的嘴唇挣扎着想问出一个问题。
　　"It's not time to worry yet," Atticus reassured him, as we went tothe diningroom. "We're not through yet. There'll be an appeal, you cancount on that. Gracious alive, Cal, what's all this?" He was staringat his breakfast plate.
“现在还不是担心的时候，”我们走向餐厅时，阿蒂克斯安慰他说。“案子还没完。肯定会有上诉的，你放心吧。我的天哪，卡尔，这到底是怎么回事？”他正盯着自己的早餐盘子。
　　Calpurnia said, "Tom Robinson's daddy sent you along this chickenthis morning. I fixed it.""You tell him I'm proud to get it- bet they don't have chicken forbreakfast at the White House. What are these?""Rolls," said Calpurnia. "Estelle down at the hotel sent 'em."Atticus looked up at her, puzzled, and she said, "You better stepout here and see what's in the kitchen, Mr. Finch."We followed him. The kitchen table was loaded with enough food tobury the family: hunks of salt pork, tomatoes, beans, evenscuppernongs. Atticus grinned when he found a jar of pickled pigs'
卡尔珀尼亚说：“汤姆·罗宾逊的爸爸今天早上给你送来了这只鸡。我把它弄好了。” “你跟他说我很荣幸收到它——我打赌白宫早餐没有鸡肉。这是什么？” “面包卷，”卡尔珀尼亚说。“是酒店里的埃斯特尔送的。” 阿蒂克斯疑惑地抬头看着她，她说：“芬奇先生，你最好出去看看厨房里有什么。” 我们跟着他。餐桌上摆满了足够埋葬一家人的食物：大块的咸猪肉、西红柿、豆子，甚至还有斯卡普农奶酪。阿蒂克斯发现一罐腌猪肉时，咧嘴一笑。
　　knuckles. "Reckon Aunty'll let me eat these in the diningroom?"Calpurnia said, "This was all 'round the back steps when I gothere this morning. They- they 'preciate what you did, Mr. Finch. They-they aren't oversteppin' themselves, are they?"Atticus's eyes filled with tears. He did not speak for a moment.
指关节。“阿姨会让我去餐厅吃这些吗？”卡尔珀尼亚说，“今天早上我去的时候，这些都发生在后门台阶上。他们——他们很感激你所做的一切，芬奇先生。他们——他们没有越界吧？”阿蒂克斯的眼里噙满了泪水。他一时没说话。
　　"Tell them I'm very grateful," he said. "Tell them- tell them theymust never do this again. Times are too hard…"He left the kitchen, went in the diningroom and excused himself toAunt Alexandra, put on his hat and went to town.
“告诉他们我非常感激，”他说。“告诉他们——告诉他们以后再也不许再犯这种事了。日子太难熬了……”他离开厨房，走进餐厅，向亚历山德拉姑妈告辞，戴上帽子，进城去了。
　　We heard Dill's step in the hall, so Calpurnia left Atticus'suneaten breakfast on the table. Between rabbit-bites Dill told us ofMiss Rachel's reaction to last night, which was: if a man like AtticusFinch wants to butt his head against a stone wall it's his head.
我们听到迪尔在走廊里走来走去，于是卡尔珀尼亚把阿蒂克斯没吃完的早餐留在了桌上。迪尔一边吃着兔子肉，一边跟我们讲雷切尔小姐昨晚的反应：如果像阿蒂克斯·芬奇这样的人想用头撞石墙，那只能是他的头撞墙了。
　　"I'da got her told," growled Dill, gnawing a chicken leg, "but shedidn't look much like tellin' this morning. Said she was up half thenight wonderin' where I was, said she'da had the sheriff after mebut he was at the hearing.""Dill, you've got to stop goin' off without tellin' her," saidJem. "It just aggravates her."Dill sighed patiently. "I told her till I was blue in the face whereI was goin'- she's just seein' too many snakes in the closet. Bet thatwoman drinks a pint for breakfast every morning- know she drinks twoglasses full. Seen her.""Don't talk like that, Dill," said Aunt Alexandra. "It's notbecoming to a child. It's- cynical.""I ain't cynical, Miss Alexandra. Tellin' the truth's not cynical,is it?""The way you tell it, it is."Jem's eyes flashed at her, but he said to Dill, "Let's go. You cantake that runner with you."When we went to the front porch, Miss Stephanie Crawford was busytelling it to Miss Maudie Atkinson and Mr. Avery. They looked aroundat us and went on talking. Jem made a feral noise in his throat. Iwished for a weapon.
“我早就让她知道了，”迪尔一边啃着鸡腿一边咆哮道，“但她今天早上看起来不太像。她说她半夜没睡，一直在想我去哪儿，还说她叫警长来找我，可警长当时在听证会现场。”“迪尔，你别不说就走了，”杰姆说。“这只会让她更生气。”迪尔耐心地叹了口气。“我跟她说得脸都青了——她只是在壁橱里看到了太多蛇。我敢打赌，那女人每天早餐都喝一品脱啤酒——要知道她每次都喝满两杯。我见过她。”“别这么说，迪尔，”亚历山德拉姑妈说。 “这不像个孩子。这——愤世嫉俗。”“我才不愤世嫉俗呢，亚历山德拉小姐。说实话不算愤世嫉俗，对吧？”“你这么说，就是愤世嫉俗。”杰姆的眼神闪过她，但他还是对迪尔说：“我们走吧。你可以带着那个跑腿的。”我们走到前廊时，斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐正忙着把这件事告诉莫迪·阿特金森小姐和艾弗里先生。他们回头看了看我们，继续说着。杰姆喉咙里发出一声凶狠的声音。我真希望有武器。
　　"I hate grown folks lookin' at you," said Dill. "Makes you feel likeyou've done something."Miss Maudie yelled for Jem Finch to come there.
“我讨厌大人看着你，”迪尔说，“让你感觉好像自己做了什么事似的。”莫迪小姐大声叫杰姆·芬奇过来。
　　Jem groaned and heaved himself up from the swing. "We'll go withyou," Dill said.
杰姆呻吟一声，从秋千上站了起来。“我们跟你一起去。”迪尔说。
　　Miss Stephanie's nose quivered with curiosity. She wanted to knowwho all gave us permission to go to court- she didn't see us but itwas all over town this morning that we were in the Colored balcony.
斯蒂芬妮小姐的鼻子好奇地颤动着。她想知道是谁允许我们去法庭的——她没看到我们，但今天早上我们在黑人阳台上，这件事传遍了全城。
　　Did Atticus put us up there as a sort of-? Wasn't it right close upthere with all those-? Did Scout understand all the-? Didn't it makeus mad to see our daddy beat?
阿蒂克斯把我们安排在那里，是不是为了——？难道我们在那里不是正对着那些——？斯库特明白所有那些——吗？看到爸爸挨打，我们难道不生气吗？
　　"Hush, Stephanie." Miss Maudie's diction was deadly. "I've not gotall the morning to pass on the porch- Jem Finch, I called to findout if you and your colleagues can eat some cake. Got up at five tomake it, so you better say yes. Excuse us, Stephanie. Good morning,Mr. Avery."There was a big cake and two little ones on Miss Maudie's kitchentable. There should have been three little ones. It was not likeMiss Maudie to forget Dill, and we must have shown it. But weunderstood when she cut from the big cake and gave the slice to Jem.
“嘘，斯蒂芬妮。”莫迪小姐的语气冷酷无情。“我没时间在门廊上待一上午——杰姆·芬奇，我打电话来是想问问你和你的同事能不能吃点蛋糕。我五点就起床做了，所以你最好答应。斯蒂芬妮，不好意思。早上好，艾弗里先生。”莫迪小姐的餐桌上摆着一个大蛋糕和两个小蛋糕。本来应该有三个小蛋糕的。莫迪小姐不会忘记迪尔，我们肯定也表现出来了。不过，当她从大蛋糕上切下一块递给杰姆时，我们明白了。
　　As we ate, we sensed that this was Miss Maudie's way of sayingthat as far as she was concerned, nothing had changed. She sat quietlyin a kitchen chair, watching us.
吃饭的时候，我们感觉到莫迪小姐在用这种方式告诉我们，在她看来，一切都没有改变。她静静地坐在厨房的椅子上，看着我们。
　　Suddenly she spoke: "Don't fret, Jem. Things are never as bad asthey seem."Indoors, when Miss Maudie wanted to say something lengthy she spreadher fingers on her knees and settled her bridgework. This she did, andwe waited.
她突然开口说道：“别担心，杰姆。事情远没有看上去那么糟糕。”回到屋里，莫迪小姐想说些长话时，就张开手指撑在膝盖上，安放好牙桥。她照做了，我们等着。
　　"I simply want to tell you that there are some men in this world whowere born to do our unpleasant jobs for us. Your father's one ofthem.""Oh," said Jem. "Well.""Don't you oh well me, sir," Miss Maudie replied, recognizingJem's fatalistic noises, "you are not old enough to appreciate whatI said."Jem was staring at his half-eaten cake. "It's like bein' acaterpillar in a cocoon, that's what it is," he said. "Likesomethin' asleep wrapped up in a warm place. I always thoughtMaycomb folks were the best folks in the world, least that's what theyseemed like.""We're the safest folks in the world," said Miss Maudie. "We're sorarely called on to be Christians, but when we are, we've got men likeAtticus to go for us."Jem grinned ruefully. "Wish the rest of the county thought that.""You'd be surprised how many of us do.""Who?" Jem's voice rose. "Who in this town did one thing to help TomRobinson, just who?""His colored friends for one thing, and people like us. Peoplelike Judge Taylor. People like Mr. Heck Tate. Stop eating and startthinking, Jem. Did it ever strike you that Judge Taylor naming Atticusto defend that boy was no accident? That Judge Taylor might have hadhis reasons for naming him?"This was a thought. Court-appointed defenses were usually given toMaxwell Green, Maycomb's latest addition to the bar, who needed theexperience. Maxwell Green should have had Tom Robinson's case.
“我只是想告诉你，这世上有些人天生就是为我们做这些不愉快的工作的。你父亲就是其中之一。”“哦，”杰姆说。“好吧。”“先生，别这样，”莫迪小姐回答道，她听出了杰姆那种宿命论式的语气，“你还不够大，不懂我说的话。”杰姆盯着吃了一半的蛋糕。“就像一条毛毛虫在茧里，就是这样，”他说。“就像裹在温暖的地方睡着了一样。我一直觉得梅科姆人是世界上最好的人，至少他们看起来是这样的。”“我们是世界上最安全的人，”莫迪小姐说。“我们很少被要求成为基督徒，但一旦被要求，我们还有像阿蒂克斯这样的人来帮助我们。”杰姆苦笑了一下。 “真希望全县其他人都这么想。”“你肯定会惊讶我们这么多人都这么想。”“谁？”杰姆提高了嗓门。“这镇上谁帮过汤姆·罗宾逊，到底是谁？”“首先是他的黑人朋友，还有像我们这样的人。像泰勒法官这样的人。像赫克·泰特先生这样的人。别吃了，想想吧，杰姆。你有没有想过，泰勒法官提名阿蒂克斯为那个男孩辩护绝非偶然？泰勒法官提名他可能有他自己的理由？”我脑子里冒出这个想法。法院指定的辩护律师通常是梅科姆新晋律师麦克斯韦尔·格林，他需要经验。汤姆·罗宾逊的案子应该由麦克斯韦尔·格林来处理。
　　"You think about that," Miss Maudie was saying. "It was no accident.
“你想想，”莫迪小姐说道，“这不是意外。”
　　I was sittin' there on the porch last night, waiting. I waited andwaited to see you all come down the sidewalk, and as I waited Ithought, Atticus Finch won't win, he can't win, but he's the onlyman in these parts who can keep a jury out so long in a case likethat. And I thought to myself, well, we're making a step- it's justa baby-step, but it's a step.""'t's all right to talk like that- can't any Christian judges an'
昨晚我坐在门廊上，等着。我等了又等，就为了看到你们从人行道上走过来。我一边等，一边想，阿蒂克斯·芬奇赢不了，他不可能赢，但他是这片地方唯一一个能让陪审团在这种案子上迟迟不决的人。我心想，好吧，我们迈出了一步——虽然只是一小步，但总归是一步。”“这样说没问题——难道任何一个基督徒法官都不能……”
　　lawyers make up for heathen juries," Jem muttered. "Soon's I getgrown-""That's something you'll have to take up with your father," MissMaudie said.
“律师弥补了异教徒的陪审团，”杰姆咕哝道。“我很快就会长大——”“这件事你得和你父亲商量，”莫迪小姐说。
　　We went down Miss Maudie's cool new steps into the sunshine andfound Mr. Avery and Miss Stephanie Crawford still at it. They hadmoved down the sidewalk and were standing in front of Miss Stephanie'shouse. Miss Rachel was walking toward them.
我们走下莫迪小姐家凉爽的新台阶，走进阳光下，发现艾弗里先生和斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐还在忙着。他们沿着人行道走下去，站在斯蒂芬妮小姐的房子前。雷切尔小姐正朝他们走来。
　　"I think I'll be a clown when I get grown," said Dill.
“我想长大后我会成为一名小丑，”迪尔说。
　　Jem and I stopped in our tracks.
杰姆和我停下了脚步。
　　"Yes sir, a clown," he said. "There ain't one thing in this worldI can do about folks except laugh, so I'm gonna join the circus andlaugh my head off.""You got it backwards, Dill," said Jem. "Clowns are sad, it'sfolks that laugh at them.""Well I'm gonna be a new kind of clown. I'm gonna stand in themiddle of the ring and laugh at the folks. Just looka yonder," hepointed. "Every one of 'em oughta be ridin' broomsticks. Aunt Rachelalready does."Miss Stephanie and Miss Rachel were waving wildly at us, in a waythat did not give the lie to Dill's observation.
“是的，先生，我就是小丑，”他说。“这世上除了逗大家笑，我什么也做不了，所以我要加入马戏团，开怀大笑。”“迪尔，你搞反了，”杰姆说。“小丑很可悲，是人们嘲笑他们。”“那我就做个新式小丑。我要站在擂台中央，嘲笑那些人。你看那边，”他指着那边说。“他们每个人都应该骑上扫帚。瑞秋姨妈已经骑上去了。”斯蒂芬妮小姐和瑞秋小姐正疯狂地朝我们挥手，但这并没有揭穿迪尔的观察。
　　"Oh gosh," breathed Jem. "I reckon it'd be ugly not to see 'em."Something was wrong. Mr. Avery was red in the face from a sneezingspell and nearly blew us off the sidewalk when we came up. MissStephanie was trembling with excitement, and Miss Rachel caught Dill'sshoulder. "You get on in the back yard and stay there," she said.
“哦，天哪，”杰姆倒吸一口气。“我看不出来会很难看。”出事了。艾弗里先生打了一阵喷嚏，脸涨得通红，我们上来的时候差点把我们从人行道上吹下去。斯蒂芬妮小姐激动得浑身发抖，雷切尔小姐一把抓住迪尔的肩膀。“你到后院去，待在那里，”她说。
　　"There's danger a'comin'.""'s matter?" I asked.
“危险来了。”“怎么了？”我问。
　　"Ain't you heard yet? It's all over town-"At that moment Aunt Alexandra came to the door and called us, butshe was too late. It was Miss Stephanie's pleasure to tell us: thismorning Mr. Bob Ewell stopped Atticus on the post office corner,spat in his face, and told him he'd get him if it took the rest of hislife.
“你还没听说吗？全镇都传遍了——”就在这时，亚历山德拉姑妈来到门口叫我们，但她来晚了。斯蒂芬妮小姐很高兴地告诉我们：今天早上，鲍勃·尤厄尔先生在邮局街角拦住了阿蒂克斯，朝他脸上吐了口唾沫，并威胁说，即使要了他的余生，也要把他抓回来。
　　23"I wish Bob Ewell wouldn't chew tobacco," was all Atticus said aboutit.
23“我希望鲍勃·尤厄尔不要嚼烟草，”这是阿蒂克斯对此说的全部话。
　　According to Miss Stephanie Crawford, however, Atticus was leavingthe post office when Mr. Ewell approached him, cursed him, spat onhim, and threatened to kill him. Miss Stephanie （who, by the timeshe had told it twice was there and had seen it all- passing by fromthe Jitney Jungle, she was）- Miss Stephanie said Atticus didn't bat aneye, just took out his handkerchief and wiped his face and stood thereand let Mr. Ewell call him names wild horses could not bring her torepeat. Mr. Ewell was a veteran of an obscure war; that plus Atticus'speaceful reaction probably prompted him to inquire, "Too proud tofight, you nigger-lovin' bastard?" Miss Stephanie said Atticus said,"No, too old," put his hands in his pockets and strolled on. MissStephanie said you had to hand it to Atticus Finch, he could beright dry sometimes.
然而，据斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐说，阿蒂克斯正要离开邮局，尤厄尔先生走近他，咒骂他，朝他吐口水，威胁要杀了他。斯蒂芬妮小姐（她已经说过两次了，她当时就在场，亲眼目睹了这一切——她确实是从吉特尼丛林路过来的）说，阿蒂克斯连眼都没眨一下，只是掏出手帕擦了擦脸，站在那里，任由尤厄尔先生骂他，骂得她连马都不敢说。尤厄尔先生是一场鲜为人知的战争的老兵；再加上阿蒂克斯平静的反应，很可能促使他问道：“太骄傲了，不敢打仗，你这个爱黑鬼的混蛋？”斯蒂芬妮小姐说，阿蒂克斯回答说：“不，太老了，”然后把手插进口袋，继续往前走。斯蒂芬妮小姐说，你得佩服阿蒂克斯·芬奇，他有时真是个彻头彻尾的冷血动物。
　　Jem and I didn't think it entertaining.
杰姆和我都不认为这很有趣。
　　"After all, though," I said, "he was the deadest shot in thecounty one time. He could-""You know he wouldn't carry a gun, Scout. He ain't even got one-"said Jem. "You know he didn't even have one down at the jail thatnight. He told me havin' a gun around's an invitation to somebody toshoot you.""This is different," I said. "We can ask him to borrow one."We did, and he said, "Nonsense."Dill was of the opinion that an appeal to Atticus's better naturemight work: after all, we would starve if Mr. Ewell killed him,besides be raised exclusively by Aunt Alexandra, and we all knew thefirst thing she'd do before Atticus was under the ground good would beto fire Calpurnia. Jem said it might work if I cried and flung afit, being young and a girl. That didn't work either.
“毕竟，”我说，“他曾经是全县最神枪手。他可以——”“你知道他不会带枪的，斯库特。他连一把枪都没有——”杰姆说。“你知道那天晚上他在监狱里连一把枪都没有。他告诉我，带枪就等于邀请别人来打你。”“这不一样，”我说。“我们可以向他借。”我们照做了，他说：“胡说。”迪尔认为，诉诸阿蒂克斯的善良本性或许能奏效：毕竟，如果尤厄尔先生杀了他，我们就会饿死，而且我们只能由亚历山德拉姑妈独自抚养长大，而我们都知道，在阿蒂克斯入土为安之前，她做的第一件事就是开除卡波妮娅。杰姆说，如果我哭着跳起来，或许能奏效，毕竟我年纪还小，还是个女孩。但这也没用。
　　But when he noticed us dragging around the neighborhood, not eating,taking little interest in our normal pursuits, Atticus discoveredhow deeply frightened we were. He tempted Jem with a new footballmagazine one night; when he saw Jem flip the pages and toss itaside, he said, "What's bothering you, son?"Jem came to the point: "Mr. Ewell.""What has happened?""Nothing's happened. We're scared for you, and we think you oughtado something about him."Atticus smiled wryly. "Do what? Put him under a peace bond?""When a man says he's gonna get you, looks like he means it.""He meant it when he said it," said Atticus. "Jem, see if you canstand in Bob Ewell's shoes a minute. I destroyed his last shred ofcredibility at that trial, if he had any to begin with. The man had tohave some kind of comeback, his kind always does. So if spitting in myface and threatening me saved Mayella Ewell one extra beating,that's something I'll gladly take. He had to take it out on somebodyand I'd rather it be me than that houseful of children out there.
但当他注意到我们在附近拖拖拉拉、不吃不喝、对日常活动提不起兴趣时，阿蒂克斯才发现我们有多害怕。一天晚上，他用一本新的足球杂志引诱杰姆；看到杰姆翻了翻就扔到一边，他问道：“儿子，你在烦什么？”杰姆开口问道：“尤厄尔先生。”“发生了什么事？”“什么也没发生。我们为你担心，我们认为你应该对他采取措施。”阿蒂克斯苦笑了一下。“做什么？给他签和平保证书？”“当一个人说要抓你的时候，看起来他是认真的。”“他说的时候就是认真的，”阿蒂克斯说。 “杰姆，你站在鲍勃·尤厄尔的角度想想看。那次审判，我毁掉了他最后一丝信誉，如果他还有任何信誉的话。那家伙总得找个借口反击，他那一类人总是这样。所以，如果朝我脸上吐口水、威胁我，能让我少挨一顿打，我倒是乐意接受。他总得找个人出气，我宁愿找我，也不愿找那一屋子的孩子出气。
　　You understand?"Jem nodded. ...
　　Aunt Alexandra entered the room as Atticus was saying, "We don'thave anything to fear from Bob Ewell, he got it all out of hissystem that morning.""I wouldn't be so sure of that, Atticus," she said. "His kind'd doanything to pay off a grudge. You know how those people are.""What on earth could Ewell do to me, sister?""Something furtive," Aunt Alexandra said. "You may count on that.""Nobody has much chance to be furtive in Maycomb," Atticus answered.
阿蒂克斯正说着：“我们不用担心鲍勃·尤厄尔，他那天早上已经把心里的怨气全发泄出来了。”亚历山德拉姑妈进来了。“我可不敢那么肯定，阿蒂克斯，”她说。“他那种人为了报仇什么事都做得出来。你知道那些人是什么样的。”“尤厄尔到底能对我做什么，姐姐？”“鬼鬼祟祟的，”亚历山德拉姑妈说。“你尽管放心。”“在梅科姆，没人敢偷偷摸摸的，”阿蒂克斯回答。
　　After that, we were not afraid. Summer was melting away, and we madethe most of it. Atticus assured us that nothing would happen to TomRobinson until the higher court reviewed his case, and that Tom hada good chance of going free, or at least of having a new trial. He wasat Enfield Prison Farm, seventy miles away in Chester County. Iasked Atticus if Tom's wife and children were allowed to visit him,but Atticus said no.
从那以后，我们就不再害怕了。夏天渐渐消逝，我们充分利用了这段时间。阿蒂克斯向我们保证，在上级法院复审汤姆·罗宾逊的案件之前，他不会有事，而且汤姆很有可能获得自由，或者至少有机会重新受审。他被关押在切斯特县七十英里外的恩菲尔德监狱农场。我问阿蒂克斯，汤姆的妻子和孩子是否被允许探望他，但阿蒂克斯说不行。
　　"If he loses his appeal," I asked one evening, "what'll happen tohim?""He'll go to the chair," said Atticus, "unless the Governor commuteshis sentence. Not time to worry yet, Scout. We've got a good chance."Jem was sprawled on the sofa reading Popular Mechanics. Helooked up. "It ain't right. He didn't kill anybody even if he wasguilty. He didn't take anybody's life.""You know rape's a capital offense in Alabama," said Atticus.
“如果他上诉失败，”一天晚上我问，“他会怎么样？”“他会坐牢，”阿蒂克斯说，“除非州长减刑。现在还不是担心的时候，斯库特。我们很有机会。”杰姆正懒洋洋地躺在沙发上读《大众机械》。他抬起头。“这不对。即使他有罪，他也没杀人。他没夺走任何人的生命。”“你知道，在阿拉巴马州，强奸是死罪，”阿蒂克斯说。
　　"Yessir, but the jury didn't have to give him death- if theywanted to they could've gave him twenty years.""Given," said Atticus. "Tom Robinson's a colored man, Jem. No juryin this part of the world's going to say, 'We think you're guilty, butnot very,' on a charge like that. It was either a straight acquittalor nothing."Jem was shaking his head. "I know it's not right, but I can't figureout what's wrong- maybe rape shouldn't be a capital offense…"Atticus dropped his newspaper beside his chair. He said he didn'thave any quarrel with the rape statute, none what ever, but he didhave deep misgivings when the state asked for and the jury gave adeath penalty on purely circumstantial evidence. He glanced at me, sawI was listening, and made it easier. "-I mean, before a man issentenced to death for murder, say, there should be one or twoeye-witnesses. Some one should be able to say, 'Yes, I was there andsaw him pull the trigger.'""But lots of folks have been hung- hanged- on circumstantialevidence," said Jem.
“是的，先生，但陪审团不必判他死刑——如果他们愿意，可以判他二十年。”“当然判了，”阿蒂克斯说。“汤姆·罗宾逊是个黑人，杰姆。这地方没有陪审团会因为这样的指控说‘我们认为你有罪，但罪名不大’。要么直接宣判无罪，要么什么都不是。”杰姆摇着头。“我知道这不对，但我不知道哪里不对——也许强奸不应该是死罪……”阿蒂克斯把报纸扔到椅子旁边。他说他对强奸法没有任何异议，一点也不，但当州政府提出死刑请求，而陪审团仅仅根据间接证据就判处死刑时，他确实深感疑虑。他看了我一眼，发现我在听，便让事情变得轻松了一些。 “——我的意思是，比如说，一个人因谋杀被判处死刑之前，应该有一两个目击证人。应该有人能说，‘是的，我在场，亲眼看到他扣动了扳机。’”“但很多人被间接证据所束缚，”杰姆说。
　　"I know, and lots of 'em probably deserved it, too- but in theabsence of eye-witnesses there's always a doubt, some times only theshadow of a doubt. The law says 'reasonable doubt,' but I think adefendant's entitled to the shadow of a doubt. There's always thepossibility, no matter how improbable, that he's innocent.""Then it all goes back to the jury, then. We oughta do away withjuries." Jem was adamant.
“我知道，而且很多人可能也罪有应得——但既然没有目击证人，总是存在疑问，有时甚至只是一丝怀疑。法律规定了‘合理怀疑’，但我认为被告有权享有一丝怀疑。无论可能性多么小，他都是无辜的。”“那么，一切都回到陪审团的手中。我们应该废除陪审团。”杰姆态度坚决。
　　Atticus tried hard not to smile but couldn't help it. "You're ratherhard on us, son. I think maybe there might be a better way. Change thelaw. Change it so that only judges have the power of fixing thepenalty in capital cases.""Then go up to Montgomery and change the law.""You'd be surprised how hard that'd be. I won't live to see thelaw changed, and if you live to see it you'll be an old man."This was not good enough for Jem. "No sir, they oughta do awaywith juries. He wasn't guilty in the first place and they said hewas.""If you had been on that jury, son, and eleven other boys likeyou, Tom would be a free man," said Atticus. "So far nothing in yourlife has interfered with your reasoning process. Those are twelvereasonable men in everyday life, Tom's jury, but you saw somethingcome between them and reason. You saw the same thing that night infront of the jail. When that crew went away, they didn't go asreasonable men, they went because we were there. There's somethingin our world that makes men lose their heads- they couldn't be fair ifthey tried. In our courts, when it's a white man's word against ablack man's, the white man always wins. They're ugly, but those arethe facts of life.""Doesn't make it right," said Jem stolidly. He beat his fistsoftly on his knee. "You just can't convict a man on evidence likethat- you can't.""You couldn't, but they could and did. The older you grow the moreof it you'll see. The one place where a man ought to get a square dealis in a courtroom, be he any color of the rainbow, but people have away of carrying their resentments right into a jury box. As you growolder, you'll see white men cheat black men every day of your life,but let me tell you something and don't you forget it- whenever awhite man does that to a black man, no matter who he is, how rich heis, or how fine a family he comes from, that white man is trash."Atticus was speaking so quietly his last word crashed on our ears. Ilooked up, and his face was vehement. "There's nothing moresickening to me than a low-grade white man who'll take advantage ofa Negro's ignorance. Don't fool yourselves- it's all adding up and oneof these days we're going to pay the bill for it. I hope it's not inyou children's time."Jem was scratching his head. Suddenly his eyes widened. "Atticus,"he said, "why don't people like us and Miss Maudie ever sit on juries?
阿蒂克斯努力忍住不笑，但还是忍不住。“儿子，你对我们太严厉了。我想也许有更好的办法。修改法律。修改到只有法官才有权决定死刑案件的刑罚。”“那就去蒙哥马利修改法律。”“你会惊讶地发现这有多难。我活不到看到法律修改的那一天，而如果你活着看到它，你就老了。”这对杰姆来说还不够好。“不，先生，他们应该废除陪审团。他本来就无罪，但他们却说他有罪。”“儿子，如果你和其他十一个像你一样的孩子在陪审团里，汤姆就自由了，”阿蒂克斯说。 “到目前为止，你生活中的一切都没有干扰你的推理过程。汤姆的陪审团，他们十二个在日常生活中都是通情达理的人，但你看到他们与理性之间存在着某种障碍。那天晚上在监狱门前，你也看到了同样的情况。当那群人离开时，他们并非以通情达理的身份离开，而是因为我们在场。我们这个世界有某种东西会让人失去理智——他们即使努力做到公正，也做不到。在我们的法庭上，当白人与黑人对簿公堂时，白人总是赢。他们很丑陋，但这就是生活的现实。”“这并不能说明一切都正确，”杰姆冷漠地说，他轻轻地用拳头捶打着膝盖。 “你根本没法仅凭那样的证据就定罪——绝对不行。”“你做不到，但他们可以，而且确实这么做了。年纪越大，你就越明白这一点。一个人唯一应该得到公平对待的地方就是法庭，无论他是彩虹色的哪一种肤色，但人们总喜欢把怨恨带进陪审席。 等你们长大，你们会每天看到白人欺骗黑人，不过我告诉你们一件事，你们别忘了——只要一个白人这样对待黑人，不管他是谁，有多富有，出身多好，那个白人就是垃圾。”阿蒂克斯说话的声音很轻，最后一句话却震耳欲聋。我抬起头，看到他脸上写满了愤怒。“没有什么比一个下流的白人利用黑人的无知更让我恶心的了。别自欺欺人了——这一切都在累积，总有一天我们会为此付出代价的。我希望不是在你们这些孩子的时候。”杰姆挠着头。突然，他的眼睛睁大了。“阿蒂克斯，”他说，“为什么像我们和莫迪小姐这样的人从来不当陪审员？”
　　You never see anybody from Maycomb on a jury- they all come from outin the woods."Atticus leaned back in his rocking-chair. For some reason helooked pleased with Jem. "I was wondering when that'd occur to you,"he said. "There are lots of reasons. For one thing, Miss Maudiecan't serve on a jury because she's a woman-""You mean women in Alabama can't-?" I was indignant.
“你从来没见过梅科姆镇的人当陪审员——他们都是外地人。”阿蒂克斯往摇椅上一靠。不知怎么的，他看起来对杰姆挺满意的。“我还在想你什么时候会想到这一点呢，”他说。“原因有很多。首先，莫迪小姐不能当陪审员，因为她是女人——”“你是说阿拉巴马州的女人不能——？”我愤愤不平。
　　"I do. I guess it's to protect our frail ladies from sordid caseslike Tom's. Besides," Atticus grinned, "I doubt if we'd ever get acomplete case tried- the ladies'd be interrupting to ask questions."Jem and I laughed. Miss Maudie on a jury would be impressive. Ithought of old Mrs. Dubose in her wheelchair- "Stop that rapping, JohnTaylor, I want to ask this man something." Perhaps our forefatherswere wise.
“我当然知道。我猜是为了保护我们这些体弱的女士们，不让她们卷入像汤姆那样的肮脏案件。再说，”阿蒂克斯咧嘴一笑，“我怀疑我们永远也审不完一个案子——女士们肯定会打断我问问题。”杰姆和我笑了。莫迪小姐加入陪审团一定很了不起。我想起了坐在轮椅上的杜博斯老太太——“别敲了，约翰·泰勒，我想问这个人一件事。”也许我们的祖先很明智。
　　Atticus was saying, "With people like us- that's our share of thebill. We generally get the juries we deserve. Our stout Maycombcitizens aren't interested, in the first place. In the second place,they're afraid. Then, they're-""Afraid, why?" asked Jem.
阿蒂克斯说：“像我们这样的人——这是我们该承担的。我们通常都会得到应有的陪审团。首先，我们坚定的梅康市民不感兴趣。其次，他们害怕。然后，他们——” “害怕，为什么？”杰姆问。
　　"Well, what if- say, Mr. Link Deas had to decide the amount ofdamages to award, say, Miss Maudie, when Miss Rachel ran over her witha car. Link wouldn't like the thought of losing either lady's businessat his store, would he? So he tells Judge Taylor that he can't serveon the jury because he doesn't have anybody to keep store for himwhile he's gone. So Judge Taylor excuses him. Sometimes he excuses himwrathfully.""What'd make him think either one of 'em'd stop trading with him?" Iasked.
“好吧，假设——比如说，林克·迪斯先生必须决定赔偿给莫迪小姐多少，因为雷切尔小姐开车撞到了她。林克肯定不想失去两位女士在他店里的生意，对吧？所以他告诉泰勒法官，他不能担任陪审员，因为他不在的时候没人帮他看店。于是泰勒法官免了他的职。有时他会愤怒地免职。”“是什么让他觉得他们俩会不再和他做生意？”我问。
　　Jem said, "Miss Rachel would, Miss Maudie wouldn't. But a jury'svote's secret, Atticus."Our father chuckled. "You've many more miles to go, son. A jury'svote's supposed to be secret. Serving on a jury forces a man to makeup his mind and declare himself about something. Men don't like todo that. Sometimes it's unpleasant.""Tom's jury sho' made up its mind in a hurry," Jem muttered.
杰姆说：“雷切尔小姐会，莫迪小姐不会。可是陪审团的投票是保密的，阿蒂克斯。”父亲轻笑一声。“儿子，你还有很长的路要走。陪审团的投票应该是保密的。担任陪审员迫使一个人下定决心，公开表态。男人不喜欢这样做。有时这很不愉快。”“汤姆的陪审团肯定会很快做出决定，”杰姆嘟囔道。
　　Atticus's fingers went to his watchpocket. "No it didn't," hesaid, more to himself than to us. "That was the one thing that made methink, well, this may be the shadow of a beginning. That jury took afew hours. An inevitable verdict, maybe, but usually it takes 'em justa few minutes. This time-" he broke off and looked at us. "You mightlike to know that there was one fellow who took considerable wearingdown- in the beginning he was rarin' for an outright acquittal.""Who?" Jem was astonished.
阿蒂克斯的手指伸进表袋。“没有，”他说道，与其说是对我们说，不如说是自言自语。“正是这件事让我想到，嗯，这或许只是个开始的影子。陪审团花了几个小时。或许最终会做出判决，但通常只需要几分钟。这次——”他突然停了下来，看着我们。“你们或许想知道，有一个人承受了相当大的压力——一开始，他渴望得到一个彻底的无罪释放。”“谁？”杰姆大吃一惊。
　　Atticus's eyes twinkled. "It's not for me to say, but I'll tellyou this much. He was one of your Old Sarum friends…""One of the Cunninghams?" Jem yelped. "One of- I didn't recognizeany of 'em… you're jokin'." He looked at Atticus from the corners ofhis eyes.
阿蒂克斯的眼睛闪闪发光。“这事儿我可没资格说，但我得告诉你。他是你老塞勒姆的朋友……”“坎宁安家的人？”杰姆惊叫道。“坎宁安家的人——我一个都没认出来……你在开玩笑吧。”他用眼角瞟了阿蒂克斯一眼。
　　"One of their connections. On a hunch, I didn't strike him. Juston a hunch. Could've, but I didn't.""Golly Moses," Jem said reverently. "One minute they're tryin' tokill him and the next they're tryin' to turn him loose… I'll neverunderstand those folks as long as I live."Atticus said you just had to know 'em. He said the Cunninghamshadn't taken anything from or off of anybody since they migrated tothe New World. He said the other thing about them was, once you earnedtheir respect they were for you tooth and nail. Atticus said he hada feeling, nothing more than a suspicion, that they left the jail thatnight with considerable respect for the Finches. Then too, he said, ittook a thunderbolt plus another Cunningham to make one of themchange his mind. "If we'd had two of that crowd, we'd've had a hungjury."Jem said slowly, "You mean you actually put on the jury a man whowanted to kill you the night before? How could you take such a risk,Atticus, how could you?""When you analyze it, there was little risk. There's no differencebetween one man who's going to convict and another man who's goingto convict, is there? There's a faint difference between a man who'sgoing to convict and a man who's a little disturbed in his mind, isn'tthere? He was the only uncertainty on the whole list.""What kin was that man to Mr. Walter Cunningham?" I asked.
“他们的一个关系。我凭直觉没打他。只是凭直觉。本来可以打的，但我没打。”“我的天哪，”杰姆虔诚地说。“他们一会儿想杀他，一会儿又想放他走……我这辈子都搞不懂那些人。”阿蒂克斯说你必须了解他们。他说坎宁安家族自从移民到新大陆以来，没有从任何人身上拿过任何东西。他还说，关于他们的另一件事是，一旦你赢得了他们的尊重，他们就会对你百依百顺。阿蒂克斯说，他有一种感觉，也只是怀疑，那天晚上他们离开监狱时，对芬奇家族怀着相当的敬意。然后，他说，需要一道霹雳加上另一个坎宁安，才能让他们中的一个改变主意。 “要是那帮人里有两个，陪审团就无法达成一致了。”杰姆缓缓说道，“你是说，你居然把一个前一天晚上想杀你的人塞进陪审团？你怎么能冒这么大的风险，阿蒂克斯，你怎么能？”“你分析一下，风险其实不大。一个要定罪的人和另一个要定罪的人之间，没什么区别，对吧？一个要定罪的人和一个精神有点不正常的人之间，还是有那么一丁点区别的，对吧？他是名单上唯一一个不确定的人。”“那人和沃尔特·坎宁安先生是什么亲戚？”我问。
　　Atticus rose, stretched and yawned. It was not even our bedtime, butwe knew he wanted a chance to read his newspaper. He picked it up,folded it, and tapped my head. "Let's see now," he droned tohimself. "I've got it. Double first cousin.""How can that be?""Two sisters married two brothers. That's all I'll tell you- youfigure it out."I tortured myself and decided that if I married Jem and Dill had asister whom he married our children would be double first cousins.
阿蒂克斯站起身，伸了个懒腰，打了个哈欠。虽然还没到睡觉时间，但我们知道他想看看报纸。他拿起报纸，折好，然后拍了拍我的头。“现在想想，”他自言自语道。“我猜对了。双重表兄妹。”“怎么可能？”“两个姐妹嫁给了两个兄弟。我就说这么多——你自己琢磨吧。”我苦苦思索，最后决定，如果我嫁给杰姆，迪尔又娶了一个妹妹，我们的孩子就是双重表兄妹了。
　　"Gee minetti, Jem," I said, when Atticus had gone, "they're funnyfolks. 'd you hear that, Aunty?"Aunt Alexandra was hooking a rug and not watching us, but she waslistening. She sat in her chair with her workbasket beside it, her rugspread across her lap. Why ladies hooked woolen rugs on boiling nightsnever became clear to me.
“哎呀，杰姆，”阿蒂克斯走后，我说，“他们真是些古怪的人。姑姑，你听到了吗？”亚历山德拉姑姑正在钩织地毯，没在看我们，但她听着。她坐在椅子上，针线篮放在旁边，地毯铺在腿上。我一直不明白为什么女士们会在炎热的夜晚钩织羊毛地毯。
　　"I heard it," she said. ...
　　I remembered the distant disastrous occasion when I rushed toyoung Walter Cunningham's defense. Now I was glad I'd done it. "Soon'sschool starts I'm gonna ask Walter home to dinner," I planned,having forgotten my private resolve to beat him up the next time I sawhim. "He can stay over sometimes after school, too. Atticus coulddrive him back to Old Sarum. Maybe he could spend the night with ussometime, okay, Jem?""We'll see about that," Aunt Alexandra said, a declaration that withher was always a threat, never a promise. Surprised, I turned toher. "Why not, Aunty? They're good folks."She looked at me over her sewing glasses. "Jean Louise, there isno doubt in my mind that they're good folks. But they're not ourkind of folks."Jem says, "She means they're yappy, Scout.""What's a yap?""Aw, tacky. They like fiddlin' and things like that.""Well I do too-""Don't be silly, Jean Louise," said Aunt Alexandra. "The thing is,you can scrub Walter Cunningham till he shines, you can put him inshoes and a new suit, but he'll never be like Jem. Besides, there'sa drinking streak in that family a mile wide. Finch women aren'tinterested in that sort of people.""Aun-ty," said Jem, "she ain't nine yet.""She may as well learn it now."Aunt Alexandra had spoken. I was reminded vividly of the last timeshe had put her foot down. I never knew why. It was when I wasabsorbed with plans to visit Calpurnia's house- I was curious,interested; I wanted to be her "company," to see how she lived, whoher friends were. I might as well have wanted to see the other side ofthe moon. This time the tactics were different, but Aunt Alexandra'saim was the same. Perhaps this was why she had come to live with us-to help us choose our friends. I would hold her off as long as Icould: "If they're good folks, then why can't I be nice to Walter?""I didn't say not to be nice to him. You should be friendly andpolite to him, you should be gracious to everybody, dear. But youdon't have to invite him home.""What if he was kin to us, Aunty?""The fact is that he is not kin to us, but if he were, my answerwould be the same.""Aunty," Jem spoke up, "Atticus says you can choose your friends butyou sho' can't choose your family, an' they're still kin to you nomatter whether you acknowledge 'em or not, and it makes you look rightsilly when you don't.""That's your father all over again," said Aunt Alexandra, "and Istill say that Jean Louise will not invite Walter Cunningham to thishouse. If he were her double first cousin once removed he wouldstill not be received in this house unless he comes to see Atticuson business. Now that is that."She had said Indeed Not, but this time she would give her reasons:
我想起很久以前，我冲到小沃尔特·坎宁安面前，为他辩护，结果却酿成了悲剧。现在我庆幸自己做了这件事。“快开学了，我要请沃尔特回家吃饭，”我盘算着，心里盘算着下次见到他要好好揍他一顿。“他放学后也可以留下来过夜。阿蒂克斯可以开车送他回老塞勒姆。也许他哪天可以来我们家过夜，好吗，杰姆？”“我们走着瞧吧，”亚历山德拉姑妈说道，这番话对她来说永远是威胁，而不是承诺。我惊讶地转向她。“姑妈，为什么不呢？他们人都很好。”她透过缝纫眼镜看着我。 “琼·路易丝，我心里毫无疑问他们都是好人。但他们不是我们这种人。”杰姆说，“她是说他们爱唠叨，斯库特。”“唠叨是什么意思？”“哎，俗气。他们喜欢拉小提琴之类的。”“我也是——”“别傻了，琼·路易丝，”亚历山德拉姑妈说。“问题是，你可以把沃尔特·坎宁安擦得锃亮，你可以给他穿上鞋子和新衣服，但他永远也成不了杰姆那样的人。再说，那家人酗酒成性，简直是家常便饭。芬奇家的女人对那种人不感兴趣。”“姑妈，”杰姆说，“她还不到九岁呢。”“她现在就该学会了。”亚历山德拉姑妈说了这番话。我清楚地记得她上次坚决反对的情景。我一直不明白为什么。当时我正全神贯注地计划着去卡尔珀尼亚家——我既好奇又感兴趣；我想成为她的“同伴”，看看她是怎么生活的，看看她的朋友都是谁。我甚至还想看看月球的另一面。这次的策略不同，但亚历山德拉姑妈的目的是一样的。也许这就是她来和我们一起住的原因——帮我们选择朋友。 我会尽力拖延她：“如果他们是好人，那我为什么不能对沃尔特好一点呢？”“我没说不要对他好。你应该对他友好有礼，你应该对每个人都彬彬有礼，亲爱的。但你不必非要邀请他回家。”“姑姑，如果他是我们的亲戚呢？”“事实上，他不是我们的亲戚，但如果他是，我的回答还是一样。”“姑姑，”杰姆开口道，“阿蒂克斯说，你可以选择你的朋友，但你不能选择你的家人，无论你承认与否，他们仍然是你的亲戚，如果你不承认，你会显得很傻。”“这又是你父亲的翻版，”亚历山德拉姑姑说，“我仍然认为琼·路易丝不会邀请沃尔特·坎宁安来这栋房子。如果他是她远房堂兄，那他也不会被这栋房子接待，除非……他来是想看看阿蒂卡森的生意。就是这样。”她之前说过“确实不是”，但这次她会给出理由：
　　"But I want to play with Walter, Aunty, why can't I?"She took off her glasses and stared at me. "I'll tell you why,"she said. "Because- he- is- trash, that's why you can't play with him.
“可是阿姨，我想和沃尔特玩，为什么不能呢？”她摘下眼镜，盯着我。“我来告诉你原因，”她说。“因为——他——是——垃圾，所以你不能和他玩。”
　　I'll not have you around him, picking up his habits and learningLord-knows-what. You're enough of a problem to your father as it is."I don't know what I would have done, but Jem stopped me. He caughtme by the shoulders, put his arm around me, and led me sobbing in furyto his bedroom. Atticus heard us and poked his head around the door.
我不想让你在他身边，染上他的习惯，学些天知道是什么的怪癖。你本来就够你爸爸的麻烦了。“我不知道我会怎么做，但杰姆阻止了我。他抓住我的肩膀，搂着我，把我带进他的卧室，我怒不可遏地哭泣着。阿蒂克斯听到了，从门口探出头来。
　　"'s all right, sir," Jem said gruffly, "'s not anything." Atticus wentaway.
“没事的，先生，”杰姆粗声粗气地说，“没什么事。”阿蒂克斯走开了。
　　"Have a chew, Scout." Jem dug into his pocket and extracted aTootsie Roll. It took a few minutes to work the candy into acomfortable wad inside my jaw.
“斯库特，嚼一嚼。”杰姆从口袋里掏出一块杜丝卷。我花了好几分钟才把糖塞进嘴里，舒服地嚼了一口。
　　Jem was rearranging the objects on his dresser. His hair stuck upbehind and down in front, and I wondered if it would ever look likea man's- maybe if he shaved it off and started over, his hair wouldgrow back neatly in place. His eyebrows were becoming heavier, and Inoticed a new slimness about his body. He was growing taller.
杰姆正在整理梳妆台上的物品。他的头发前后翘起，我琢磨着以后会不会看起来像个男人——或许如果他把头发剃掉，重新开始，头发就能整齐地长回来。他的眉毛越来越浓，我注意到他的身材也变得苗条起来。他正在长高。
　　When he looked around, he must have thought I would start cryingagain, for he said, "Show you something if you won't tell anybody."I said what. He unbuttoned his shirt, grinning shyly.
他环顾四周，肯定以为我又要哭了，于是说道：“如果你不肯告诉任何人，我就给你看一样东西。”我说什么？他解开衬衫扣子，害羞地笑了。
　　"Well what?""Well can't you see it?""Well no.""Well it's hair.""Where?""There. Right there."He had been a comfort to me, so I said it looked lovely, but Ididn't see anything. "It's real nice, Jem.""Under my arms, too," he said. "Goin' out for football next year.
“嗯什么？”“嗯，你看不见吗？”“嗯，看不见。”“嗯，是头发。”“在哪里？”“那里。就在那里。”他安慰了我，所以我说看起来很可爱，但我什么也没看到。“真漂亮，杰姆。”“还有我的胳膊下，”他说。“明年我要去踢足球了。”
　　Scout, don't let Aunty aggravate you."It seemed only yesterday that he was telling me not to aggravateAunty.
斯库特，别让阿姨惹你生气。”仿佛就在昨天，他还告诉我不要惹阿姨生气。
　　"You know she's not used to girls," said Jem, "leastways, notgirls like you. She's trying to make you a lady. Can't you take upsewin' or somethin'?""Hell no. She doesn't like me, that's all there is to it, and Idon't care. It was her callin' Walter Cunningham trash that got megoin', Jem, not what she said about being a problem to Atticus. We gotthat all straight one time, I asked him if I was a problem and he saidnot much of one, at most one that he could always figure out, andnot to worry my head a second about botherin' him. Naw, it was Walter-that boy's not trash, Jem. He ain't like the Ewells."Jem kicked off his shoes and swung his feet to the bed. He proppedhimself against a pillow and switched on the reading light. "Youknow something, Scout? I've got it all figured out, now. I'vethought about it a lot lately and I've got it figured out. There'sfour kinds of folks in the world. There's the ordinary kind like usand the neighbors, there's the kind like the Cunninghams out in thewoods, the kind like the Ewells down at the dump, and the Negroes.""What about the Chinese, and the Cajuns down yonder in BaldwinCounty?""I mean in Maycomb County. The thing about it is, our kind offolks don't like the Cunninghams, the Cunninghams don't like theEwells, and the Ewells hate and despise the colored folks."I told Jem if that was so, then why didn't Tom's jury, made up offolks like the Cunninghams, acquit Tom to spite the Ewells?"Jem waved my question away as being infantile.
“你知道她不习惯跟女孩子相处，”杰姆说，“至少，不习惯跟你这样的女孩子相处。她想让你变成淑女。你就不能学学缝纫之类的吗？”“当然不行。她不喜欢我，就是这么回事，我不在乎。杰姆，是她骂沃尔特·坎宁安是垃圾惹我生气的，而不是她说我给阿蒂克斯添麻烦了。有一次我们把事情说清楚了，我问他我是不是麻烦，他说我没什么麻烦，顶多是个他总能猜到的麻烦，还说让我别费心去烦他。不，是沃尔特——那男孩不是垃圾，杰姆。他不像尤厄尔家的人。”杰姆踢掉鞋子，把脚甩到床上。他靠在枕头上，打开了阅读灯。 “斯库特，你知道吗？我现在全都想通了。最近我琢磨了很多，终于明白了。世界上有四种人。一种是像我们和邻居那样的普通人，一种是像坎宁安一家那样住在树林里的，一种是像尤厄尔一家那样住在垃圾场里的，还有黑人。”“那华人和鲍德温县那边的卡津人呢？”“我是说梅科姆县的。问题是，我们那一类人不喜欢坎宁安一家，坎宁安一家不喜欢尤厄尔一家，尤厄尔一家又恨又鄙视黑人。”我告诉杰姆，如果真是这样，那为什么汤姆的陪审团（由像坎宁安一家这样的人组成）不宣告汤姆无罪，以此来报复尤厄尔一家呢？”杰姆挥手，觉得我的问题幼稚得可笑。
　　"You know," he said, "I've seen Atticus pat his foot when there'sfiddlin' on the radio, and he loves pot liquor better'n any man I eversaw-""Then that makes us like the Cunninghams," I said. "I can't seewhy Aunty-""No, lemme finish- it does, but we're still different somehow.
“你知道吗，”他说，“我见过阿蒂克斯一边听收音机里的小提琴声一边拍着脚，而且他比我见过的任何人都更爱喝大麻酒——”“这么说我们俩很像坎宁安一家了，”我说。“我不明白为什么姑姑——”“不，让我把话说完——确实如此，但我们还是有点不一样。”
　　Atticus said one time the reason Aunty's so hipped on the family isbecause all we've got's background and not a dime to our names.""Well Jem, I don't know- Atticus told me one time that most ofthis Old Family stuff's foolishness because everybody's family'sjust as old as everybody else's. I said did that include the coloredfolks and Englishmen and he said yes.""Background doesn't mean Old Family," said Jem. "I think it's howlong your family's been readin' and writin'. Scout, I've studiedthis real hard and that's the only reason I can think of. Somewherealong when the Finches were in Egypt one of 'em must have learned ahieroglyphic or two and he taught his boy." Jem laughed. "ImagineAunty being proud her great-grandaddy could read an' write- ladiespick funny things to be proud of.""Well I'm glad he could, or who'da taught Atticus and them, and ifAtticus couldn't read, you and me'd be in a fix. I don't thinkthat's what background is, Jem.""Well then, how do you explain why the Cunninghams are different?
阿蒂克斯有一次说，姑姑之所以对这个家族这么了解，是因为我们只有背景，名字却一文不值。“嗯，杰姆，我不知道——阿蒂克斯有一次跟我说过，那些关于‘古老家族’的说辞大多是胡扯，因为每个人的家族都一样古老。我问他，这里面是不是也包括黑人和英国人？他说是的。”“背景不是指‘古老家族’，”杰姆说。“我觉得是指你家读书写字的时间长短。斯库特，我仔细研究过这个问题，这是我能想到的唯一原因。”芬奇一家在埃及的时候，他们俩肯定学过一两种象形文字，然后教给了他的儿子。”杰姆笑了。“想象一下，姑妈会为她的曾祖父能读会写而感到自豪——女士们总能挑出些稀奇古怪的事情来自豪。”“嗯，我很高兴他能读会写，不然谁会教阿蒂克斯他们呢？要是阿蒂克斯不识字，你我可就麻烦了。杰姆，我不认为背景就是这么回事。”“那么，你怎么解释坎宁安一家与众不同呢？
　　Mr. Walter can hardly sign his name, I've seen him. We've just beenreadin' and writin' longer'n they have.""No, everybody's gotta learn, nobody's born knowin'. That Walter'sas smart as he can be, he just gets held back sometimes because he hasto stay out and help his daddy. Nothin's wrong with him. Naw, Jem, Ithink there's just one kind of folks. Folks."Jem turned around and punched his pillow. When he settled back hisface was cloudy. He was going into one of his declines, and I grewwary. His brows came together; his mouth became a thin line. He wassilent for a while.
沃尔特先生几乎不会签名，我见过他。我们只是比他们读书写字的时间更长而已。”“不，每个人都得学，没有人天生就懂。沃尔特虽然很聪明，但有时因为要出去帮爸爸，所以会受到一些限制。他没什么问题。不，杰姆，我觉得只有一种人。人。”杰姆转过身，捶了一下枕头。他躺回去后，脸色阴沉。他的情况正在恶化，我越来越警惕。他眉头紧锁，嘴唇抿成一条线。他沉默了一会儿。
　　"That's what I thought, too," he said at last, "when I was your age.
“当我像你这么大的时候，”他最后说道，“我也这么想。
　　If there's just one kind of folks, why can't they get along witheach other? If they're all alike, why do they go out of their way todespise each other? Scout, I think I'm beginning to understandsomething. I think I'm beginning to understand why Boo Radley's stayedshut up in the house all this time… it's because he wants tostay inside."24Calpurnia wore her stiffest starched apron. She carried a tray ofcharlotte. She backed up to the swinging door and pressed gently. Iadmired the ease and grace with which she handled heavy loads ofdainty things. So did Aunt Alexandra, I guess, because she had letCalpurnia serve today.
如果只有一种人，为什么他们不能和睦相处？如果他们都一样，为什么他们要特意互相鄙视？斯库特，我想我开始明白了。我想我开始明白为什么怪人拉德利一直闭门不出……因为他想待在家里。24卡尔珀尼亚穿着她浆得最硬的围裙。她端着一盘夏洛特。她退到旋转门前，轻轻地按了一下。我欣赏她搬运沉重精致物品时的轻松优雅。我想，亚历山德拉姑妈也这么认为，因为她今天让卡尔珀尼亚来伺候。
　　August was on the brink of September. Dill would be leaving forMeridian tomorrow; today he was off with Jem at Barker's Eddy. Jem haddiscovered with angry amazement that nobody had ever bothered to teachDill how to swim, a skill Jem considered necessary as walking. Theyhad spent two afternoons at the creek, they said they were going innaked and I couldn't come, so I divided the lonely hours betweenCalpurnia and Miss Maudie.
八月即将步入九月。迪尔明天就要去子午线了；今天他和杰姆去了巴克埃迪。杰姆惊讶地发现，竟然没人费心教迪尔游泳，而游泳在他看来和走路一样必不可少。他们在小溪边待了两个下午，说要光着身子去，我去不了，于是我就把这几个寂寞的时光分给了卡尔珀尼亚和莫迪小姐。
　　Today Aunt Alexandra and her missionary circle were fighting thegood fight all over the house. From the kitchen, I heard Mrs. GraceMerriweather giving a report in the livingroom on the squalid lives ofthe Mrunas, it sounded like to me. They put the women out in huts whentheir time came, whatever that was; they had no sense of family- Iknew that'd distress Aunty- they subjected children to terribleordeals when they were thirteen; they were crawling with yaws andearworms, they chewed up and spat out the bark of a tree into acommunal pot and then got drunk on it.
今天，亚历山德拉姑妈和她的传教士们正在屋里四处奔走，为正义而战。我听到格雷斯·梅里韦瑟太太在厨房客厅里汇报穆鲁纳一家人肮脏的生活，我听着是这么回事。他们把女人关进棚屋里，不管那是什么棚屋；他们没有家庭观念——我知道这会让姑妈心疼——他们让十三岁的孩子经受可怕的折磨；他们身上爬满了雅司病和耳虫，他们把树皮嚼烂吐进公用的锅里，然后喝得酩酊大醉。
　　Immediately thereafter, the ladies adjourned for refreshments.
随后，女士们立即休会去享用茶点。
　　I didn't know whether to go into the diningroom or stay out. AuntAlexandra told me to join them for refreshments; it was notnecessary that I attend the business part of the meeting, she saidit'd bore me. I was wearing my pink Sunday dress, shoes, and apetticoat, and reflected that if I spilled anything Calpurnia wouldhave to wash my dress again for tomorrow. This had been a busy day forher. I decided to stay out.
我不知道是该去餐厅还是待在外面。亚历山德拉姑妈让我和她们一起吃点东西；她觉得没必要参加会议的商务部分，会让我感到无聊。我穿着粉红色的礼拜礼服、鞋子和披肩，心想如果我洒了什么东西，卡波妮娅就得帮我把礼服明天再洗一遍了。今天她可忙坏了。我决定待在外面。
　　"Can I help you, Cal?" I asked, wishing to be of some service.
“卡尔，我能帮你什么忙吗？”我问道，希望能帮上忙。
　　Calpurnia paused in the doorway. "You be still as a mouse in thatcorner," she said, "an' you can help me load up the trays when Icome back."The gentle hum of ladies' voices grew louder as she opened the door:
卡尔珀尼亚在门口停了下来。“你待在角落里别动，”她说，“等我回来，你帮我把托盘装上去。”她打开门，女士们轻柔的嗡嗡声越来越大：
　　"Why, Alexandra, I never saw such charlotte… just lovely… Inever can get my crust like this, never can… who'd've thought oflittle dewberry tarts… Calpurnia?… who'da thought it… anybodytell you that the preacher's wife's… nooo, well she is, and thatother one not walkin' yet…"They became quiet, and I knew they had all been served. Calpurniareturned and put my mother's heavy silver pitcher on a tray. "Thiscoffee pitcher's a curiosity," she murmured, "they don't make 'emthese days.""Can I carry it in?""If you be careful and don't drop it. Set it down at the end ofthe table by Miss Alexandra. Down there by the cups'n things. She'sgonna pour."I tried pressing my behind against the door as Calpurnia had done,but the door didn't budge. Grinning, she held it open for me. "Carefulnow, it's heavy. Don't look at it and you won't spill it."My journey was successful: Aunt Alexandra smiled brilliantly.
“哎呀，亚历山德拉，我从来没见过这么可爱的夏洛特……真是太可爱了……我从来没吃过像这样的面包皮，从来没吃过……谁能想到还有小露莓挞呢……卡尔普尼亚？……谁会想到呢……谁会告诉你，牧师的妻子……不，嗯，她已经会走路了，还有那个还没学会走路的……”她们安静下来，我知道她们都吃完了。卡尔普尼亚回来了，把我母亲沉重的银壶放在托盘上。“这壶咖啡壶真稀奇，”她低声说，“现在都不做这种壶了。”“我能把它搬进去吗？”“小心点，别掉在地上。把它放在桌子末端亚历山德拉小姐旁边。放在杯子和其他东西旁边。她要倒咖啡。”我试着像卡尔普尼亚那样用屁股抵着门，但门纹丝不动。她咧嘴一笑，帮我把门打开。 “小心点，它很重。别看它，不然会洒出来。”我的旅途很顺利：亚历山德拉姑妈露出了灿烂的笑容。
　　"Stay with us, Jean Louise," she said. This was a part of her campaignto teach me to be a lady.
“琼·路易丝，跟我们一起待着吧，”她说。这是她教我做淑女活动的一部分。
　　It was customary for every circle hostess to invite her neighbors infor refreshments, be they Baptists or Presbyterians, which accountedfor the presence of Miss Rachel （sober as a judge）， Miss Maudie andMiss Stephanie Crawford. Rather nervous, I took a seat beside MissMaudie and wondered why ladies put on their hats to go across thestreet. Ladies in bunches always filled me with vague apprehension anda firm desire to be elsewhere, but this feeling was what AuntAlexandra called being "spoiled."The ladies were cool in fragile pastel prints: most of them wereheavily powdered but unrouged; the only lipstick in the room wasTangee Natural. Cutex Natural sparkled on their fingernails, butsome of the younger ladies wore Rose. They smelled heavenly. I satquietly, having conquered my hands by tightly gripping the arms of thechair, and waited for someone to speak to me.
按照惯例，每个圈子里的女主人都会邀请邻居来吃点心，无论他们是浸信会教徒还是长老会教徒，这也解释了为什么会有雷切尔小姐（像法官一样清醒）、莫迪小姐和斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐来。我有些紧张，在莫迪小姐旁边坐下，心想为什么女士们要戴帽子过马路。成群结队的女士们总是让我隐隐感到不安，强烈地渴望换个地方，但这种感觉正是亚历山德拉姑妈所说的“被宠坏了”。女士们穿着淡雅的印花服装，显得很冷淡：她们大多扑了厚厚的粉，但没有涂胭脂；房间里唯一的口红是 Tangee Natural。她们的指甲上闪闪发光的是 Cutex Natural，但有些年轻的女士涂的是 Rose。她们身上散发着天堂般的香味。我静静地坐着，紧紧抓住椅子的扶手，控制住自己的双手，等着有人跟我说话。
　　Miss Maudie's gold bridgework twinkled. "You're mighty dressed up,Miss Jean Louise," she said, "Where are your britches today?""Under my dress."I hadn't meant to be funny, but the ladies laughed. My cheeks grewhot as I realized my mistake, but Miss Maudie looked gravely down atme. She never laughed at me unless I meant to be funny.
莫迪小姐的金牙闪闪发光。“琼·路易丝小姐，你穿得真正式，”她说，“今天你的裤子呢？”“在我的裙子下面。”我本来不是故意要搞笑的，但女士们都笑了。当我意识到自己的错误时，我的脸颊红了起来，但莫迪小姐却严肃地低头看着我。她从来不笑我，除非我是故意的。
　　In the sudden silence that followed, Miss Stephanie Crawfordcalled from across the room, "Whatcha going to be when you grow up,Jean Louise? A lawyer?""Nome, I hadn't thought about it…" I answered, grateful thatMiss Stephanie was kind enough to change the subject. Hurriedly Ibegan choosing my vocation. Nurse? Aviator? "Well…""Why shoot, I thought you wanted to be a lawyer, you've alreadycommenced going to court."The ladies laughed again. "That Stephanie's a card," somebodysaid. Miss Stephanie was encouraged to pursue the subject: "Don'tyou want to grow up to be a lawyer?"Miss Maudie's hand touched mine and I answered mildly enough, "Nome,just a lady."Miss Stephanie eyed me suspiciously, decided that I meant noimpertinence, and contented herself with, "Well, you won't get veryfar until you start wearing dresses more often."Miss Maudie's hand closed tightly on mine, and I said nothing. Itswarmth was enough.
随后一阵突如其来的沉默中，斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐从房间另一头喊道：“琼·路易丝，你长大后想做什么？律师？” “不，我还没想过……”我回答道，感激斯蒂芬妮小姐好心地换了个话题。我赶紧开始选职业。护士？飞行员？“嗯……” “怎么会呢，我以为你想当律师呢，你已经开始上法庭了。”女士们又笑了。“那个斯蒂芬妮真有意思，”有人说道。斯蒂芬妮小姐被鼓励继续这个话题：“你长大后不想当律师吗？”莫迪小姐的手碰了碰我的手，我温和地回答：“不，只要当个淑女就行。”斯蒂芬妮小姐狐疑地打量着我，觉得我并无冒犯之意，便满足地说道：“嗯，除非你开始经常穿裙子，否则你不会有什么成就。”莫迪小姐的手紧紧地握着我的手，我什么也没说。她的温暖就足够了。
　　Mrs. Grace Merriweather sat on my left, and I felt it would bepolite to talk to her. Mr. Merriweather, a faithful Methodist underduress, apparently saw nothing personal in singing, "Amazing Grace,how sweet the sound, that saved a wretch like me…" It was thegeneral opinion of Maycomb, however, that Mrs. Merriweather hadsobered him up and made a reasonably useful citizen of him. Forcertainly Mrs. Merriweather was the most devout lady in Maycomb. Isearched for a topic of interest to her. "What did you all studythis afternoon?" I asked.
格蕾丝·梅里韦瑟太太坐在我左边，我觉得跟她聊聊比较礼貌。梅里韦瑟先生是一位虔诚的卫理公会教徒，迫于压力，他似乎觉得唱“奇异恩典，何等甜美的声音，拯救了我这样的可怜人……”这句歌词并没有什么个人恩怨。然而，梅科姆的普遍看法是，梅里韦瑟太太让他清醒了过来，让他成为了一个相当有用的公民。梅里韦瑟太太无疑是梅科姆最虔诚的女士。我努力寻找一个她感兴趣的话题。“你们今天下午都学了什么？”我问道。
　　"Oh child, those poor Mrunas," she said, and was off. Few otherquestions would be necessary.
“哦，孩子，那些可怜的姆鲁纳人，”她说完就走了。没必要再问什么了。
　　Mrs. Merriweather's large brown eyes always filled with tears whenshe considered the oppressed. "Living in that jungle with nobody butJ. Grimes Everett," she said. "Not a white person'll go near 'em butthat saintly J. Grimes Everett."Mrs. Merriweather played her voice like an organ; every word shesaid received its full measure: "The poverty… the darkness… theimmorality- nobody but J. Grimes Everett knows. You know, when thechurch gave me that trip to the camp grounds J. Grimes Everett said tome-""Was he there, ma'am? I thought-""Home on leave. J. Grimes Everett said to me, he said, 'Mrs.
每当想到那些受压迫的人们，梅里韦瑟太太那双大大的棕色眼睛里总是噙满泪水。“住在那片丛林里，除了 J·格莱姆斯·埃弗雷特，没有其他人，”她说。“除了那位圣洁的 J·格莱姆斯·埃弗雷特，没有一个白人敢靠近他们。”梅里韦瑟太太的声音像风琴一样舒展；她说的每一个字都饱含深意：“贫穷……黑暗……不道德——除了 J·格莱姆斯·埃弗雷特，没有人知道。你知道，教会安排我去营地的时候，J·格莱姆斯·埃弗雷特对我说——”“他在那儿吗，夫人？我以为——”“休假回家。J·格莱姆斯·埃弗雷特对我说，‘夫人……’
　　Merriweather, you have no conception, no con cep tion of what we arefighting over there.' That's what he said to me.""Yes ma'am.""I said to him, 'Mr. Everett,' I said, 'the ladies of the MaycombAlabama Methodist Episcopal Church South are behind you one hundredpercent.' That's what I said to him. And you know, right then andthere I made a pledge in my heart. I said to myself, when I go homeI'm going to give a course on the Mrunas and bring J. Grimes Everett'smessage to Maycomb and that's just what I'm doing.""Yes ma'am."When Mrs. Merriweather shook her head, her black curls jiggled.
“梅里韦瑟，你根本不懂，完全不懂我们那边在打什么仗。”他就是这么对我说的。“是的，夫人。”“我对他说，‘埃弗雷特先生，’我说，‘梅科姆阿拉巴马卫理公会南教堂的女士们百分之百地支持你。’我就是这么对他说的。你知道吗，就在那时，我在心里许下了一个诺言。我对自己说，回家后，我要开一门关于穆鲁纳家族的课程，把 J·格莱姆斯·埃弗雷特的信息带到梅科姆，而这正是我正在做的。”“是的，夫人。”梅里韦瑟太太摇头时，她黑色的卷发也随之抖动。
　　"Jean Louise," she said, "you are a fortunate girl. You live in aChristian home with Christian folks in a Christian town. Out therein J. Grimes Everett's land there's nothing but sin and squalor.""Yes ma'am.""Sin and squalor- what was that, Gertrude?" Mrs. Merriweather turnedon her chimes for the lady sitting beside her. "Oh that. Well, Ialways say forgive and forget, forgive and forget. Thing that churchought to do is help her lead a Christian life for those childrenfrom here on out. Some of the men ought to go out there and tellthat preacher to encourage her.""Excuse me, Mrs. Merriweather," I interrupted, "are you alltalking about Mayella Ewell?""May-? No, child. That darky's wife. Tom's wife, Tom-""Robinson, ma'am."Mrs. Merriweather turned back to her neighbor. "There's one thingI truly believe, Gertrude," she continued, "but some people just don'tsee it my way. If we just let them know we forgive 'em, that we'veforgotten it, then this whole thing'll blow over.""Ah- Mrs. Merriweather," I interrupted once more, "what'll blowover?"Again, she turned to me. Mrs. Merriweather was one of thosechildless adults who find it necessary to assume a different tone ofvoice when speaking to children. "Nothing, Jean Louise," she said,in stately largo, "the cooks and field hands are just dissatisfied,but they're settling down now- they grumbled all next day after thattrial."Mrs. Merriweather faced Mrs. Farrow: "Gertrude, I tell you there'snothing more distracting than a sulky darky. Their mouths go down tohere. Just ruins your day to have one of 'em in the kitchen. Youknow what I said to my Sophy, Gertrude? I said, 'Sophy,' I said,'you simply are not being a Christian today. Jesus Christ never wentaround grumbling and complaining,' and you know, it did her good.
“琼·路易丝，”她说，“你真是个幸运的女孩。你住在一个基督教家庭，和一群基督教徒，在一个基督教小镇上生活。在 J·格莱姆斯·埃弗雷特的地盘上，除了罪恶和肮脏什么也没有。”“是的，夫人。”“罪恶和肮脏——那是什么，格特鲁德？”梅里韦瑟太太打开了风铃，对坐在她旁边的女士说。“哦，是那个。嗯，我总是说，宽恕和忘记，宽恕和忘记。教会应该做的是，从现在开始，帮助她为那些孩子过上基督徒的生活。应该派几个人去告诉那个牧师，鼓励她。”“对不起，梅里韦瑟太太，”我打断她，“你们是在谈论梅耶拉·尤厄尔吗？”“梅——？不，孩子。那个黑人的妻子。汤姆的妻子，汤姆——”“罗宾逊，夫人。”梅里韦瑟太太转身对着她的邻居。 “有一件事我坚信不疑，格特鲁德，”她继续说道，“但有些人就是不认同我的观点。如果我们让他们知道我们原谅了他们，我们已经忘记了，那么这件事就会过去了。”“啊——梅里韦瑟太太，”我又打断了她，“什么会过去呢？”她又转向我。梅里韦瑟太太是那种没有孩子的成年人，觉得跟孩子说话时有必要换一种语气。“没什么，琼·路易丝，”她用庄重的语气说道，“厨师和农场工人只是不满意，但现在他们安定下来了——那次审判之后，他们第二天就抱怨了一整天。”梅里韦瑟对着法罗太太说：“格特鲁德，我告诉你，没有什么比一个阴沉的黑人更让人分心的了。他们的嘴巴都长到这儿来了。厨房里有他们，简直毁了你的一天。格特鲁德，你知道我对我的苏菲说了什么吗？我说，‘苏菲，’我说，‘你今天简直不像个基督徒。耶稣基督从不到处发牢骚、抱怨。’你知道，这对她有好处。”
　　She took her eyes off that floor and said, 'Nome, Miz Merriweather,Jesus never went around grumblin'.' I tell you, Gertrude, you neverought to let an opportunity go by to witness for the Lord."I was reminded of the ancient little organ in the chapel atFinch's Landing. When I was very small, and if I had been very goodduring the day, Atticus would let me pump its bellows while hepicked out a tune with one finger. The last note would linger aslong as there was air to sustain it. Mrs. Merriweather had run outof air, I judged, and was replenishing her supply while Mrs. Farrowcomposed herself to speak.
她把目光从地板上移开，说道：“不，梅里韦瑟太太，耶稣从不到处抱怨。”我告诉你，格特鲁德，你千万不要错过任何一个为主作见证的机会。“这让我想起了芬奇码头教堂里那架古老的小管风琴。小时候，如果我白天表现很好，阿蒂克斯就会让我拉风箱，他则用一根手指拨出一段曲子。只要还有气息支撑，最后一个音符就会萦绕不去。我猜想，梅里韦瑟太太的气息已经用完了，正在补充，而法罗太太则在调整自己的情绪，准备开口说话。
　　Mrs. Farrow was a splendidly built woman with pale eyes and narrowfeet. She had a fresh permanent wave, and her hair was a mass of tightgray ringlets. She was the second most devout lady in Maycomb. She hada curious habit of prefacing everything she said with a softsibilant sound.
法罗太太身材匀称，眼睛浅色，脚尖细长。她烫了个新发型，一头浓密的灰白卷发。她是梅科姆镇第二虔诚的女士。她有个奇怪的习惯，说话前总要先发出轻柔的嘶嘶声。
　　"S-s-s Grace," she said, "it's just like I was telling BrotherHutson the other day. 'S-s-s Brother Hutson,' I said, 'looks likewe're fighting a losing battle, a losing battle.' I said, 'S-s-s itdoesn't matter to 'em one bit. We can educate 'em till we're blue inthe face, we can try till we drop to make Christians out of 'em, butthere's no lady safe in her bed these nights.' He said to me, 'Mrs.
“格蕾丝小姐，”她说，“就像我前几天跟赫特森兄弟说的一样。‘赫特森兄弟，’我说，‘看来我们是在打一场必败的仗，一场必败的仗。’我说，‘这对他们来说根本无关紧要。我们可以把他们教育到脸色发青，我们可以拼尽全力把他们变成基督徒，但现在晚上没有哪个女人能安心睡觉。’他对我说，‘赫特森太太……’
　　Farrow, I don't know what we're coming to down here.' S-s-s I told himthat was certainly a fact."Mrs. Merriweather nodded wisely. Her voice soared over the clinkof coffee cups and the soft bovine sounds of the ladies munching theirdainties. "Gertrude," she said, "I tell you there are some good butmisguided people in this town. Good, but misguided. Folks in this townwho think they're doing right, I mean. Now far be it from me to saywho, but some of 'em in this town thought they were doing the rightthing a while back, but all they did was stir 'em up. That's allthey did. Might've looked like the right thing to do at the time,I'm sure I don't know, I'm not read in that field, but sulky…dissatisfied… I tell you if my Sophy'd kept it up another day I'dhave let her go. It's never entered that wool of hers that the onlyreason I keep her is because this depression's on and she needs herdollar and a quarter every week she can get it.""His food doesn't stick going down, does it?"Miss Maudie said it. Two tight lines had appeared at the cornersof her mouth. She had been sitting silently beside me, her coffeecup balanced on one knee. I had lost the thread of conversation longago, when they quit talking about Tom Robinson's wife, and hadcontented myself with thinking of Finch's Landing and the river.
“法罗，我不知道我们来这儿干什么。”“我告诉他，这确实是事实。”梅里韦瑟太太明智地点了点头。她的声音盖过了咖啡杯碰撞的叮当声和女士们咀嚼美食时发出的轻柔的牛叫声。“格特鲁德，”她说，“我告诉你，这镇上有些人很好，但被误导了。是的，但被误导了。我是说，这镇上有些人自以为是。现在我很难说是谁，但镇上有些人不久前以为自己在做正确的事情，但他们所做的只是煽动民众。这就是他们所做的一切。当时看起来可能是正确的做法，我当然不知道，我在这方面不了解，只是闷闷不乐……不满……我告诉你，如果我的索菲再坚持一天，我就让她走了。她从来没想过，我留下她的唯一原因是因为经济大萧条，她每周都需要一美元二十五美分才能拿到钱。”“他的食物吃不下去，是吗？”莫迪小姐这么说。她的嘴角露出了两条紧绷的皱纹。她一直默默地坐在我旁边，咖啡杯稳稳地放在单膝上。很久以前，当他们不再谈论汤姆·罗宾逊的妻子时，我就断了话题，只想着芬奇码头和那条河。
　　Aunt Alexandra had got it backwards: the business part of themeeting was blood-curdling, the social hour was dreary.
亚历山德拉姑妈把事情搞反了：会议的商务部分令人毛骨悚然，社交时间则令人沉闷。
　　"Maudie, I'm sure I don't know what you mean," said Mrs.
“莫迪，我真不明白你的意思，”莫迪夫人说道。
　　Merriweather. ...
　　"I'm sure you do," Miss Maudie said shortly.
“我相信你会的，”莫迪小姐简短地说道。
　　She said no more. When Miss Maudie was angry her brevity was icy.
她没再说话。莫迪小姐生气的时候，说话总是简洁得像冰山一角。
　　Something had made her deeply angry, and her gray eyes were as cold asher voice. Mrs. Merriweather reddened, glanced at me, and looked away.
有什么事让她怒火中烧，灰眼睛里透着冰冷，声音也一样冰冷。梅里韦瑟太太脸红了，看了我一眼，又移开了视线。
　　I could not see Mrs. Farrow.
我没能见到法罗夫人。
　　Aunt Alexandra got up from the table and swiftly passed morerefreshments, neatly engaging Mrs. Merriweather and Mrs. Gates inbrisk conversation. When she had them well on the road with Mrs.
亚历山德拉姑妈从桌边站起身，迅速递上更多茶点，与梅里韦瑟太太和盖茨太太轻松愉快地交谈起来。等她们和梅里韦瑟太太上路后，她又……
　　Perkins, Aunt Alexandra stepped back. She gave Miss Maudie a look ofpure gratitude, and I wondered at the world of women. Miss Maudieand Aunt Alexandra had never been especially close, and here was Auntysilently thanking her for something. For what, I knew not. I wascontent to learn that Aunt Alexandra could be pierced sufficientlyto feel gratitude for help given. There was no doubt about it, Imust soon enter this world, where on its surface fragrant ladiesrocked slowly, fanned gently, and drank cool water.
珀金斯，亚历山德拉姑妈往后退了一步。她看了莫迪小姐一眼，眼里满是感激。我不禁对女人的世界感到好奇。莫迪小姐和亚历山德拉姑妈从未如此亲近，而姑妈却默默地感谢她。至于感谢什么，我一无所知。我很高兴得知亚历山德拉姑妈能够感人至深，对她给予的帮助心怀感激。毫无疑问，我很快就要进入这个世界了，在它的表面上，芬芳的女士们缓缓摇晃，轻轻扇动着扇子，喝着凉水。
　　But I was more at home in my father's world. People like Mr. HeckTate did not trap you with innocent questions to make fun of you; evenJem was not highly critical unless you said something stupid. Ladiesseemed to live in faint horror of men, seemed unwilling to approvewholeheartedly of them. But I liked them. There was something aboutthem, no matter how much they cussed and drank and gambled and chewed;no matter how undelectable they were, there was something about themthat I instinctively liked… they weren't-"Hypocrites, Mrs. Perkins, born hypocrites," Mrs. Merriweather wassaying. "At least we don't have that sin on our shoulders down here.
但我在父亲的世界里更自在。像赫克泰特先生这样的人不会用一些无关紧要的问题来捉弄你；就连杰姆也不会过分批评你，除非你说了些蠢话。女士们似乎对男人有一种隐隐的恐惧，似乎不愿全心全意地认可他们。但我喜欢她们。她们身上有一种独特的特质，无论她们多么咒骂、酗酒、赌博、嚼烟；无论她们多么不受欢迎，她们身上总有某种东西让我本能地喜欢……她们不是——“伪君子，珀金斯太太，天生的伪君子，”梅里韦瑟太太说道。“至少我们这里没有那种罪孽。”
　　People up there set 'em free, but you don't see 'em settin' at thetable with 'em. At least we don't have the deceit to say to 'em yesyou're as good as we are but stay away from us. Down here we justsay you live your way and we'll live ours. I think that woman, thatMrs. Roosevelt's lost her mind- just plain lost her mind coming downto Birmingham and tryin' to sit with 'em. If I was the Mayor ofBirmingham I'd-"Well, neither of us was the Mayor of Birmingham, but I wished Iwas the Governor of Alabama for one day: I'd let Tom Robinson go soquick the Missionary Society wouldn't have time to catch its breath.
上面的人把他们释放了，但你看不到他们和他们同桌吃饭。至少我们不会骗他们，说“是的，你们和我们一样好，但离我们远点”。在这里，我们只会说，你们走你们的路，我们走我们的路。我觉得那个女人，那个罗斯福夫人疯了——简直疯了，跑到伯明翰来，还想和他们坐在一起。如果我是伯明翰市长，我会——“好吧，我们俩都不是伯明翰市长，但我真希望自己能当一天阿拉巴马州州长：我会尽快放走汤姆·罗宾逊，让传教士协会连喘口气的时间都没有。”
　　Calpurnia was telling Miss Rachel's cook the other day how bad Tom wastaking things and she didn't stop talking when I came into thekitchen. She said there wasn't a thing Atticus could do to makebeing shut up easier for him, that the last thing he said to Atticusbefore they took him down to the prison camp was, "Good-bye, Mr.
前几天，卡尔珀尼亚跟雷切尔小姐的厨子说汤姆怎么这么难受，我走进厨房的时候，她还在喋喋不休。她说阿蒂克斯怎么也堵不住嘴，被押往战俘营前，他说的最后一句话是：“再见，汤姆先生。”
　　Finch, there ain't nothin' you can do now, so there ain't no usetryin'." Calpurnia said Atticus told her that the day they took Tom toprison he just gave up hope. She said Atticus tried to explainthings to him, and that he must do his best not to lose hope becauseAtticus was doing his best to get him free. Miss Rachel's cook askedCalpurnia why didn't Atticus just say yes, you'll go free, and leaveit at that- seemed like that'd be a big comfort to Tom. Calpurniasaid, "Because you ain't familiar with the law. First thing youlearn when you're in a lawin' family is that there ain't anydefinite answers to anything. Mr. Finch couldn't say somethin's sowhen he doesn't know for sure it's so."The front door slammed and I heard Atticus's footsteps in thehall. Automatically I wondered what time it was. Not nearly time forhim to be home, and on Missionary Society days he usually stayeddowntown until black dark.
“芬奇，你现在什么也做不了了，所以再试也没用了。”卡尔珀尼亚说，阿蒂克斯告诉她，汤姆被抓进监狱的那天，他就彻底放弃了希望。她说阿蒂克斯试着向他解释事情，他必须尽力不放弃希望，因为阿蒂克斯正在竭尽全力让他自由。雷切尔小姐的厨师问卡尔珀尼亚，为什么阿蒂克斯不直接说“是的，你会被释放”，然后就这样算了——这似乎能给汤姆带来很大的安慰。卡尔珀尼亚说：“因为你不熟悉法律。当你在一个法律世家长大时，你首先学到的就是，任何事情都没有明确的答案。”芬奇先生在不确定某事是否属实的时候，是不会说它是属实的。“前门砰地关上，我听到阿蒂克斯在走廊里走来走去的脚步声。我不禁想知道现在几点了。离他回家的时间还远着呢，而且在传教士协会的日子里，他通常会在市中心待到天黑。
　　He stopped in the doorway. His hat was in his hand, and his face waswhite.
他停在门口，手里拿着帽子，脸色苍白。
　　"Excuse me, ladies," he said. "Go right ahead with your meeting,don't let me disturb you. Alexandra, could you come to the kitchen aminute? I want to borrow Calpurnia for a while."He didn't go through the diningroom, but went down the backhallway and entered the kitchen from the rear door. Aunt Alexandra andI met him. The diningroom door opened again and Miss Maudie joined us.
“女士们，不好意思，”他说，“你们去开会吧，别打扰你们。亚历山德拉，你能来厨房一下吗？我想借用一下卡波妮娅。”他没有穿过餐厅，而是沿着后走廊，从后门进了厨房。我和亚历山德拉姨妈迎接了他。餐厅的门再次打开，莫迪小姐加入了我们。
　　Calpurnia had half risen from her chair. ...
　　"Cal," Atticus said, "I want you to go with me out to HelenRobinson's house-""What's the matter?" Aunt Alexandra asked, alarmed by the look on myfather's face.
“卡尔，”阿蒂克斯说，“我想让你跟我一起去海伦·罗宾逊家——”“怎么了？”亚历山德拉姑妈被我父亲脸上的表情惊呆了，问道。
　　"Tom's dead."Aunt Alexandra put her hands to her mouth.
“汤姆死了。”亚历山德拉姑妈用手捂住嘴。
　　"They shot him," said Atticus. "He was running. It was duringtheir exercise period. They said he just broke into a blind ravingcharge at the fence and started climbing over. Right in front ofthem-""Didn't they try to stop him? Didn't they give him any warning?"Aunt Alexandra's voice shook.
“他们开枪打死了他，”阿蒂克斯说。“他当时正在跑。当时正值他们训练时间。他们说他突然冲向栅栏，然后开始翻越。就在他们面前——”“他们没试图阻止他吗？他们没给他任何警告吗？”亚历山德拉姑妈的声音颤抖着。
　　"Oh yes, the guards called to him to stop. They fired a few shots inthe air, then to kill. They got him just as he went over the fence.
“哦，是的，”警卫们叫他停下来。他们朝空中开了几枪，然后把他打死了。就在他翻过栅栏的时候，他们抓住了他。
　　They said if he'd had two good arms he'd have made it, he was movingthat fast. Seventeen bullet holes in him. They didn't have to shoothim that much. Cal, I want you to come out with me and help me tellHelen.""Yes sir," she murmured, fumbling at her apron. Miss Maudie wentto Calpurnia and untied it.
他们说如果他有两条好胳膊，就能活下来，因为他跑得那么快。他身上有十七个弹孔。他们没必要射那么多枪。卡尔，我要你跟我出去，帮我告诉海伦。”“是的，先生，”她低声说着，笨手笨脚地解着围裙。莫迪小姐走到卡尔珀尼亚身边，解开了围裙。
　　"This is the last straw, Atticus," Aunt Alexandra said. ...
　　"Depends on how you look at it," he said. "What was one Negro,more or less, among two hundred of 'em? He wasn't Tom to them, hewas an escaping prisoner."Atticus leaned against the refrigerator, pushed up his glasses,and rubbed his eyes. "We had such a good chance," he said. "I told himwhat I thought, but I couldn't in truth say that we had more than agood chance. I guess Tom was tired of white men's chances andpreferred to take his own. Ready, Cal?""Yessir, Mr. Finch.""Then let's go."Aunt Alexandra sat down in Calpurnia's chair and put her hands toher face. She sat quite still; she was so quiet I wondered if shewould faint. I heard Miss Maudie breathing as if she had justclimbed the steps, and in the diningroom the ladies chattered happily.
“这得看你怎么看，”他说。“在两百个黑人里，一个黑人算什么？对他们来说，他不是汤姆，他只是个逃犯。”阿蒂克斯靠在冰箱上，推了推眼镜，揉了揉眼睛。“我们本来机会很大，”他说。“我跟他说了我的想法，但我实在说不上有多大机会。我猜汤姆厌倦了白人的机会，宁愿自己把握。准备好了吗，卡尔？”“是的，芬奇先生。”“那我们走吧。”亚历山德拉姑妈在卡尔珀尼亚的椅子上坐下，双手捂住脸。她一动不动地坐着；她安静得让我怀疑她会不会晕过去。我听到莫迪小姐的呼吸声，仿佛她刚爬上台阶似的，餐厅里的女士们也兴高采烈地聊着天。
　　I thought Aunt Alexandra was crying, but when she took her handsaway from her face, she was not. She looked weary. She spoke, andher voice was flat.
我以为亚历山德拉姑妈哭了，但当她把手从脸上拿开时，她并没有哭。她看起来很疲惫。她说话了，声音很平淡。
　　"I can't say I approve of everything he does, Maudie, but he's mybrother, and I just want to know when this will ever end." Her voicerose: "It tears him to pieces. He doesn't show it much, but it tearshim to pieces. I've seen him when- what else do they want from him,Maudie, what else?""What does who want, Alexandra?" Miss Maudie asked.
“我不能说我赞同他做的所有事，莫迪，但他是我的弟弟，我只想知道这一切什么时候才能结束。”她提高了嗓门：“这让他心如刀绞。他没怎么表露出来，但这真的让他心如刀绞。我见过他——他们还想从他那里得到什么，莫迪，还有什么？”“他们想要什么，亚历山德拉？”莫迪小姐问。
　　"I mean this town. They're perfectly willing to let him do whatthey're too afraid to do themselves- it might lose 'em a nickel.
“我指的是这个镇子。他们完全愿意让他做他们自己不敢做的事情——这可能会让他们损失一点钱。
　　They're perfectly willing to let him wreck his health doing whatthey're afraid to do, they're-""Be quiet, they'll hear you," said Miss Maudie. "Have you everthought of it this way, Alexandra? Whether Maycomb knows it or not,we're paying the highest tribute we can pay a man. We trust him todo right. It's that simple.""Who?" Aunt Alexandra never knew she was echoing her twelve-year-oldnephew.
他们心甘情愿地让他去做他们不敢做的事，毁掉自己的健康，他们——” “安静点，他们会听到的，”莫迪小姐说。“你有没有这样想过，亚历山德拉？不管梅科姆是否知道，我们都在向一个男人致以最高的敬意。我们相信他会做好事。就这么简单。” “谁？”亚历山德拉姑妈从来不知道，她正在重复她十二岁侄子的话。
　　"The handful of people in this town who say that fair play is notmarked White Only; the handful of people who say a fair trial is foreverybody, not just us; the handful of people with enough humilityto think, when they look at a Negro, there but for the Lord's kindnessam l." Miss Maudie's old crispness was returning: "The handful ofpeople in this town with background, that's who they are."Had I been attentive, I would have had another scrap to add to Jem'sdefinition of background, but I found myself shaking and couldn'tstop. I had seen Enfield Prison Farm, and Atticus had pointed outthe exercise yard to me. It was the size of a football field.
“镇上那一小撮人说公平竞争并非只针对白人；那一小撮人说公平审判是每个人的，不只是我们；那一小撮人足够谦卑，看到一个黑人，会想，要不是上帝保佑，他也不会有事的。”莫迪小姐又恢复了往日的干脆：“镇上那一小撮人有背景，他们就是背景。”如果我当时留心听，我还能补充一点杰姆对背景的定义，但我发现自己浑身发抖，停不下来。我看过恩菲尔德监狱农场，阿蒂克斯还指给我看那里的操场。它有足球场那么大。
　　"Stop that shaking," commanded Miss Maudie, and I stopped. "Getup, Alexandra, we've left 'em long enough."Aunt Alexandra rose and smoothed the various whalebone ridgesalong her hips. She took her handkerchief from her belt and wipedher nose. She patted her hair and said, "Do I show it?""Not a sign," said Miss Maudie. "Are you together again, JeanLouise?""Yes ma'am.""Then let's join the ladies," she said grimly.
“别抖了，”莫迪小姐命令道，我停了下来。“起来，亚历山德拉，我们离开的时间够长了。”亚历山德拉姑妈站起身，抚平臀部的鲸须状隆起。她从腰带上取下手帕擦了擦鼻子。她拍了拍头发，问道：“我表现出来了？”“一点儿也没有，”莫迪小姐说。“琼·路易丝，你们又在一起了吗？”“是的，夫人。”“那我们去和女士们一起吧，”她阴沉地说。
　　Their voices swelled when Miss Maudie opened the door to thediningroom. Aunt Alexandra was ahead of me, and I saw her head go upas she went through the door.
莫迪小姐打开餐厅门的时候，她们的声音更大了。亚历山德拉姨妈走在我前面，我看到她进门时抬起了头。
　　"Oh, Mrs. Perkins," she said, "you need some more coffee. Let me getit.""Calpurnia's on an errand for a few minutes, Grace," said MissMaudie. "Let me pass you some more of those dewberry tarts. 'dyou hearwhat that cousin of mine did the other day, the one who likes to gofishing?…"And so they went, down the row of laughing women, around thediningroom, refilling coffee cups, dishing out goodies as though theironly regret was the temporary domestic disaster of losing Calpurnia.
“哦，珀金斯太太，”她说，“您还需要点咖啡。我去拿。”“卡波妮娅出去办点事，格蕾丝，”莫迪小姐说。“我再递给您一些露莓馅饼。你听说我那个喜欢钓鱼的表妹前几天干了什么吗？……”于是她们沿着一排笑呵呵的女人走过去，绕着餐厅走，一边给咖啡杯续杯，一边分发甜点，仿佛她们唯一的遗憾就是失去卡波妮娅带来的暂时的家庭灾难。
　　The gentle hum began again. "Yes sir, Mrs. Perkins, that J. GrimesEverett is a martyred saint, he… needed to get married so theyran… to the beauty parlor every Saturday afternoon… soon as thesun goes down. He goes to bed with the… chickens, a crate full ofsick chickens, Fred says that's what started it all. Fred says…"Aunt Alexandra looked across the room at me and smiled. She lookedat a tray of cookies on the table and nodded at them. I carefullypicked up the tray and watched myself walk to Mrs. Merriweather.
轻柔的嗡嗡声再次响起。“是的，珀金斯太太，先生，J·格莱姆斯·埃弗雷特是一位殉道圣人，他……需要结婚，所以他们每个星期六下午……太阳一落山就跑去……美容院。他和……鸡一起睡觉，一箱病鸡，弗雷德说这就是一切的起因。弗雷德说……”亚历山德拉姑妈隔着房间看着我，笑了。她看着桌上的一盘饼干，点了点头。我小心翼翼地拿起托盘，看着自己走向梅里韦瑟太太。
　　With my best company manners, I asked her if she would have some.
我以最好的礼仪问她是否想吃一些。
　　After all, if Aunty could be a lady at a time like this, so could I.
毕竟，如果阿姨在这种时候可以表现得像个淑女，那么我也可以。
　　25"Don't do that, Scout. Set him out on the back steps.""Jem, are you crazy?…""I said set him out on the back steps."Sighing, I scooped up the small creature, placed him on the bottomstep and went back to my cot. September had come, but not a trace ofcool weather with it, and we were still sleeping on the back screenporch. Lightning bugs were still about, the night crawlers andflying insects that beat against the screen the summer long had notgone wherever they go when autumn comes.
25“别这样，斯库特。把他放在后门台阶上。”“杰姆，你疯了吗？……”“我说把他放在后门台阶上。”我叹了口气，抱起这小家伙，把他放在最底层台阶上，然后回到我的小床上。九月已经到来，但天气却没有丝毫凉爽，我们仍然睡在后门廊的纱窗上。萤火虫还在，那些在夏天拍打纱窗的夜蚯蚓和飞虫，到了秋天也依然如故。
　　A roly-poly had found his way inside the house; I reasoned thatthe tiny varmint had crawled up the steps and under the door. I wasputting my book on the floor beside my cot when I saw him. Thecreatures are no more than an inch long, and when you touch themthey roll themselves into a tight gray ball.
一只圆滚滚的家伙钻进了屋子；我猜这只小害虫一定是从台阶上爬到门缝底下钻进来的。我正把书放在床边的地板上，这时我看到了它。这东西不超过一英寸长，摸起来会卷成一个紧紧的灰色球。
　　I lay on my stomach, reached down and poked him. He rolled up. Then,feeling safe, I suppose, he slowly unrolled. He traveled a fewinches on his hundred legs and I touched him again. He rolled up.
我趴下来，伸手戳了戳他。他卷了起来。然后，我猜，他觉得安全了，慢慢地展开了身体。他用他那一百条腿走了几英寸，我又碰了碰他。他卷了起来。
　　Feeling sleepy, I decided to end things. My hand was going down on himwhen Jem spoke.
我感到困倦，决定结束这一切。杰姆说话的时候，我的手正放在他身上。
　　Jem was scowling. It was probably a part of the stage he was goingthrough, and I wished he would hurry up and get through it. He wascertainly never cruel to animals, but I had never known his charity toembrace the insect world.
杰姆愁眉苦脸。这大概是他正在经历的一个阶段，我希望他能快点熬过去。他当然不会对动物残忍，但我从来没见过他有如此宽容地拥抱昆虫世界。
　　"Why couldn't I mash him?" I asked.
“为什么我不能打败他？”我问道。
　　"Because they don't bother you," Jem answered in the darkness. Hehad turned out his reading light.
“因为它们不打扰你。”杰姆在黑暗中回答。他已经关掉了阅读灯。
　　"Reckon you're at the stage now where you don't kill flies andmosquitoes now, I reckon," I said. "Lemme know when you change yourmind. Tell you one thing, though, I ain't gonna sit around and notscratch a redbug.""Aw dry up," he answered drowsily.
“我估计你现在已经到了不想打苍蝇蚊子的地步了，”我说。“等你改变主意了告诉我一声。不过，告诉你一件事，我可不会干坐着不去抓一只红虫子。” “哦，擦干吧，”他昏昏欲睡地回答。
　　Jem was the one who was getting more like a girl every day, not I.
杰姆每天都变得越来越像一个女孩，而不是我。
　　Comfortable, I lay on my back and waited for sleep, and whilewaiting I thought of Dill. He had left us the first of the monthwith firm assurances that he would return the minute school was out-he guessed his folks had got the general idea that he liked to spendhis summers in Maycomb. Miss Rachel took us with them in the taxi toMaycomb Junction, and Dill waved to us from the train window untilhe was out of sight. He was not out of mind: I missed him. The lasttwo days of his time with us, Jem had taught him to swim-Taught him to swim. I was wide awake, remembering what Dill had toldme.
我舒服地仰面躺着，等着入睡，一边等着，一边想着迪尔。他月初就离开了我们，信誓旦旦地说学校一放学就回来——他猜他家人大概都觉得他喜欢在梅科姆过暑假。雷切尔小姐带我们坐出租车去了梅科姆枢纽站，迪尔从火车窗外向我们挥手，直到他消失不见。他并没有消失：我很想念他。在他和我们在一起的最后两天，杰姆教他游泳——真的教他游泳。我完全清醒，想起迪尔告诉我的话。
　　Barker's Eddy is at the end of a dirt road off the Meridianhighway about a mile from town. It is easy to catch a ride down thehighway on a cotton wagon or from a passing motorist, and the shortwalk to the creek is easy, but the prospect of walking all the wayback home at dusk, when the traffic is light, is tiresome, andswimmers are careful not to stay too late.
巴克埃迪位于子午线公路旁一条土路的尽头，距离镇子约一英里。沿着公路很容易搭上棉花车或过往车辆的便车，步行到小溪也很方便，但考虑到黄昏时分车辆稀少，一路走回家会让人感到疲惫，游泳的人也都小心翼翼，不会待得太晚。
　　According to Dill, he and Jem had just come to the highway when theysaw Atticus driving toward them. He looked like he had not seenthem, so they both waved. Atticus finally slowed down; when theycaught up with him he said, "You'd better catch a ride back. I won'tbe going home for a while." Calpurnia was in the back seat.
据迪尔说，他和杰姆刚上高速公路就看到阿蒂克斯开车朝他们开来。阿蒂克斯看起来好像没看到他们，于是两人都挥了挥手。阿蒂克斯终于放慢了车速；他们追上他时，他说：“你最好搭车回去。我一会儿不回家。” 卡尔珀尼亚坐在后座上。
　　Jem protested, then pleaded, and Atticus said, "All right, you cancome with us if you stay in the car."On the way to Tom Robinson's, Atticus told them what had happened.
杰姆先是抗议，然后又恳求，阿蒂克斯说：“好吧，如果你留在车里，你可以跟我们一起去。”在去汤姆·罗宾逊家的路上，阿蒂克斯告诉了他们发生的事情。
　　They turned off the highway, rode slowly by the dump and past theEwell residence, down the narrow lane to the Negro cabins. Dill said acrowd of black children were playing marbles in Tom's front yard.
他们驶离公路，缓缓驶过垃圾场，经过尤厄尔家，沿着狭窄的小路来到黑人小屋。迪尔说，一群黑人孩子正在汤姆家的前院玩弹珠。
　　Atticus parked the car and got out. Calpurnia followed him through thefront gate.
阿蒂克斯停好车，下了车。卡尔珀尼亚跟着他穿过前门。
　　Dill heard him ask one of the children, "Where's your mother,Sam?" and heard Sam say, "She down at Sis Stevens's, Mr. Finch. Wantme run fetch her?"Dill said Atticus looked uncertain, then he said yes, and Samscampered off. "Go on with your game, boys," Atticus said to thechildren.
迪尔听到他问一个孩子：“萨姆，你妈妈在哪儿？”又听到萨姆说：“芬奇先生，她在史蒂文斯姐家。要我去把她带过来吗？”迪尔说阿蒂克斯看起来有点犹豫，然后答应了，萨姆便跑开了。“孩子们，继续玩你们的游戏吧，”阿蒂克斯对孩子们说。
　　A little girl came to the cabin door and stood looking at Atticus.
一个小女孩来到小屋门口，站在那里看着阿提克斯。
　　Dill said her hair was a wad of tiny stiff pigtails, each ending ina bright bow. She grinned from ear to ear and walked toward ourfather, but she was too small to navigate the steps. Dill said Atticuswent to her, took off his hat, and offered her his finger. She grabbedit and he eased her down the steps. Then he gave her to Calpurnia.
迪儿说她的头发像一团细细的硬辫子，每根辫子的末端都系着一个鲜艳的蝴蝶结。她咧嘴一笑，朝我们的父亲走去，但她个子太小，走不动台阶。迪儿说阿蒂克斯走到她面前，脱下帽子，伸出手指。她抓住手指，他扶着她走下台阶。然后把她交给了卡尔珀尼亚。
　　Sam was trotting behind his mother when they came up. Dill saidHelen said, "'evenin', Mr. Finch, won't you have a seat?" But shedidn't say any more. Neither did Atticus.
他们上来的时候，萨姆正小步跟在他妈妈身后。迪尔说……海伦说：“晚上好，芬奇先生，您不坐一下吗？”但她没再说什么。阿蒂克斯也没再说。
　　"Scout," said Dill, "she just fell down in the dirt. Just felldown in the dirt, like a giant with a big foot just came along andstepped on her. Just ump-" Dill's fat foot hit the ground. "Like you'dstep on an ant."Dill said Calpurnia and Atticus lifted Helen to her feet and halfcarried, half walked her to the cabin. They stayed inside a long time,and Atticus came out alone. When they drove back by the dump, someof the Ewells hollered at them, but Dill didn't catch what they said.
“斯库特，”迪尔说，“她刚才摔倒在泥土里。就摔倒在泥土里，就像一个长着大脚的巨人突然出现，踩在她身上一样。就……”迪尔的肥脚落地。“就像踩到一只蚂蚁一样。”迪尔说着，卡尔珀尼亚和阿蒂克斯把海伦扶起来，半抱着半抱着她走向小屋。他们在里面待了很久，阿蒂克斯独自走了出来。当他们开车经过垃圾场时，尤厄尔家的几个人冲他们喊叫，但迪尔没听清他们在说什么。
　　Maycomb was interested by the news of Tom's death for perhaps twodays; two days was enough for the information to spread through thecounty. "Did you hear about?… No? Well, they say he was runnin' fitto beat lightnin'…" To Maycomb, Tom's death was typical. Typicalof a nigger to cut and run. Typical of a nigger's mentality to have noplan, no thought for the future, just run blind first chance he saw.
梅科姆镇对汤姆死讯的关注大概持续了两天；两天的时间足以让消息传遍全县。“你听说了吗？……没听说？嗯，他们说他跑得飞快，连闪电都来不及……”对梅科姆镇来说，汤姆的死很典型。典型的黑鬼逃亡模式。典型的黑鬼心态：没有计划，没有未来，一有机会就盲目逃窜。
　　Funny thing, Atticus Finch might've got him off scot free, butwait-? Hell no. You know how they are. Easy come, easy go. Justshows you, that Robinson boy was legally married, they say he kepthimself clean, went to church and all that, but when it comes downto the line the veneer's mighty thin. Nigger always comes out in 'em.
真有意思，阿提克斯·芬奇或许能让他逍遥法外，但是等等——？见鬼，不可能。你知道他们这帮人。来得容易，去得也容易。这说明，罗宾逊那小子虽然合法结婚了，据说他戒除邪淫，去教堂什么的，但到了真正开始行动的时候，这层伪装就薄如蝉翼了。他们总是会露出黑鬼的真面目。
　　A few more details, enabling the listener to repeat his version inturn, then nothing to talk about until The Maycomb Tribuneappeared the following Thursday. There was a brief obituary in theColored News, but there was also an editorial.
又加了一些细节，让听众可以轮流重复他的说法，然后就没什么可说的了，直到下周四《梅科姆论坛报》出版。《有色人种新闻报》刊登了一篇简短的讣告，但也发表了一篇社论。
　　Mr. B. B. Underwood was at his most bitter, and he couldn't havecared less who canceled advertising and subscriptions. （But Maycombdidn't play that way: Mr. Underwood could holler till he sweated andwrite whatever he wanted to, he'd still get his advertising andsubscriptions. If he wanted to make a fool of himself in his paperthat was his business.） Mr. Underwood didn't talk about miscarriagesof justice, he was writing so children could understand. Mr. Underwoodsimply figured it was a sin to kill cripples, be they standing,sitting, or escaping. He likened Tom's death to the senselessslaughter of songbirds by hunters and children, and Maycomb thought hewas trying to write an editorial poetical enough to be reprinted inThe Montgomery Advertiser.
BB·安德伍德先生正处于最痛苦的时刻，他根本不在乎谁取消了广告和订阅。（但梅科姆可不这么想：安德伍德先生可以一直喊到汗流浃背，想写什么就写什么，他仍然可以得到广告和订阅。如果他想在报纸上出丑，那是他的事。）安德伍德先生谈论的不是冤假错案，他写作是为了让孩子们理解。安德伍德先生只是认为杀死残疾人是一种罪过，无论他们是站着、坐着还是逃跑。他把汤姆的死比作猎人和孩子们对鸣禽的毫无意义的屠杀，而梅科姆认为他是想写一篇足够诗意的社论，足以在《蒙哥马利广告报》上转载。
　　How could this be so, I wondered, as I read Mr. Underwood'seditorial. Senseless killing- Tom had been given due process of law tothe day of his death; he had been tried openly and convicted by twelvegood men and true; my father had fought for him all the way. ThenMr. Underwood's meaning became clear: Atticus had used every toolavailable to free men to save Tom Robinson, but in the secret courtsof men's hearts Atticus had no case. Tom was a dead man the minuteMayella Ewell opened her mouth and screamed.
我读着安德伍德先生的社论，心想这怎么可能呢？毫无意义的杀戮——汤姆直到死前都得到了正当的法律程序；他被十二位正直善良的男子公开审判并定罪；我父亲一路为他辩护。这时，安德伍德先生的意思就清楚了：阿蒂克斯用尽了一切手段来解救汤姆·鲁滨逊，但在人们内心深处的秘密法庭上，阿蒂克斯毫无根据。梅耶拉·尤厄尔一开口尖叫，汤姆就死了。
　　The name Ewell gave me a queasy feeling. Maycomb had lost no time ingetting Mr. Ewell's views on Tom's demise and passing them alongthrough that English Channel of gossip, Miss Stephanie Crawford.
尤厄尔这个名字让我感到一阵恶心。梅科姆镇很快就掌握了尤厄尔先生对汤姆之死的看法，并通过英吉利海峡那边的八卦小道——斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐——把这些看法传播出去。
　　Miss Stephanie told Aunt Alexandra in Jem's presence （"Oh foot, he'sold enough to listen."） that Mr. Ewell said it made one down and abouttwo more to go. Jem told me not to be afraid, Mr. Ewell was more hotgas than anything. Jem also told me that if I breathed a word toAtticus, if in any way I let Atticus know I knew, Jem would personallynever speak to me again.
斯蒂芬妮小姐当着杰姆的面告诉亚历山德拉姑妈（“哦，天哪，他已经够听话了。”）尤厄尔先生说，这样就完成了一个，还有两个左右。杰姆告诉我别害怕，尤厄尔先生简直就是个大火球。杰姆还告诉我，如果我向阿蒂克斯透露一个字，如果我以任何方式让阿蒂克斯知道我知道了，杰姆就永远不会再跟我说话了。
　　26School started, and so did our daily trips past the Radley Place.
26日开学了，我们每天经过拉德利广场的行程也开始了。
　　Jem was in the seventh grade and went to high school, beyond thegrammar-school building; I was now in the third grade, and ourroutines were so different I only walked to school with Jem in themornings and saw him at mealtimes. He went out for football, but wastoo slender and too young yet to do anything but carry the teamwater buckets. This he did with enthusiasm; most afternoons he wasseldom home before dark.
杰姆七年级，在文法学校大楼那边上高中；我当时上三年级，我们的日常生活截然不同，我只在早上和杰姆一起步行上学，吃饭的时候才能见到他。他出去踢足球，但身材太瘦，年纪太小，除了给球队提水桶外什么也做不了。他热情地提着水桶；大多数下午，他很少在天黑前回家。
　　The Radley Place had ceased to terrify me, but it was no lessgloomy, no less chilly under its great oaks, and no less uninviting.
拉德利庄园不再让我害怕，但它依然阴暗，高大的橡树下依然寒冷，依然令人不快。
　　Mr. Nathan Radley could still be seen on a clear day, walking to andfrom town; we knew Boo was there, for the same old reason- nobody'dseen him carried out yet. I sometimes felt a twinge of remorse, whenpassing by the old place, at ever having taken part in what musthave been sheer torment to Arthur Radley- what reasonable reclusewants children peeping through his shutters, delivering greetings onthe end of a fishing-pole, wandering in his collards at night?
天气晴朗的时候，还能看到内森·拉德利先生在镇上来回走动；我们知道布在那里，原因还是老样子——还没人看到他被抬出去。我有时路过那老地方，会感到一丝懊悔，后悔自己曾经参与过那件对亚瑟·拉德利来说无疑是彻头彻尾的折磨——哪个理智的隐士会希望孩子们透过百叶窗偷看，用鱼竿问候，晚上在他的羽衣甘蓝地里徘徊？
　　And yet I remembered. Two Indian-head pennies, chewing gum, soapdolls, a rusty medal, a broken watch and chain. Jem must have put themaway somewhere. I stopped and looked at the tree one afternoon: thetrunk was swelling around its cement patch. The patch itself wasturning yellow.
但我还是记得。两枚印第安人头像硬币、口香糖、肥皂娃娃、一枚生锈的奖章、一块坏掉的手表和一条链子。杰姆肯定把它们藏在什么地方了。一天下午，我停下来，看着那棵树：树干在水泥地上肿了起来。水泥地本身也变黄了。
　　We had almost seen him a couple of times, a good enough score foranybody.
我们有几次差点就见到他了，对于任何人来说，这已经是相当不错的成绩了。
　　But I still looked for him each time I went by. Maybe someday wewould see him. I imagined how it would be: when it happened, he'd justbe sitting in the swing when I came along. "Hidy do, Mr. Arthur," Iwould say, as if I had said it every afternoon of my life. "Evening,Jean Louise," he would say, as if he had said it every afternoon of mylife, "right pretty spell we're having, isn't it?" "Yes sir, rightpretty," I would say, and go on.
但我每次路过还是会寻找他。也许有一天我们会见到他。我想象着那会是怎样的景象：等到那一天真的到来时，我经过时，他正坐在秋千上。“你好，亚瑟先生，”我会说，仿佛我这辈子的每个下午都这么说。“晚上好，琼·路易丝，”他会说，仿佛我这辈子的每个下午都这么说，“我们这时间过得真愉快，对吧？”“是的，先生，真愉快，”我会说，然后继续往前走。
　　It was only a fantasy. We would never see him. He probably did goout when the moon was down and gaze upon Miss Stephanie Crawford.
那只是幻觉。我们永远也见不到他了。他或许会在月落之时出去凝视斯蒂芬妮·克劳福德小姐。
　　I'd have picked somebody else to look at, but that was his business.
我本来会选择其他人来观看，但那是他的事。
　　He would never gaze at us.
他从来不会注视我们。
　　"You aren't starting that again, are you?" said Atticus one night,when I expressed a stray desire just to have one good look at BooRadley before I died. "If you are, I'll tell you right now: stop it.
“你不会又开始那样做了吧？”一天晚上，我突然想在死前好好看看布拉德利，阿蒂克斯说道。“如果你又开始那样做了，我现在就告诉你：住手。”
　　I'm too old to go chasing you off the Radley property. Besides, it'sdangerous. You might get shot. You know Mr. Nathan shoots at everyshadow he sees, even shadows that leave size-four bare footprints. Youwere lucky not to be killed."I hushed then and there. At the same time I marveled at Atticus.
我年纪太大了，没法把你赶出拉德利家。再说，这很危险。你可能会被枪杀。你知道，内森先生见到什么影子就开枪，哪怕是留下四号大小光脚印的影子。你没被打死已经很幸运了。”我当时就安静下来了。同时，我对阿蒂克斯感到很惊讶。
　　This was the first he had let us know he knew a lot more aboutsomething than we thought he knew. And it had happened years ago.
这是他第一次让我们知道，他知道的事情比我们想象的要多得多。而且这已经是好几年前的事了。
　　No, only last summer- no, summer before last, when… time was playingtricks on me. I must remember to ask Jem.
不，只是去年夏天——不，是前年夏天，那时候……时间在捉弄我。我得记得问问杰姆。
　　So many things had happened to us, Boo Radley was the least of ourfears. Atticus said he didn't see how anything else could happen, thatthings had a way of settling down, and after enough time passed peoplewould forget that Tom Robinson's existence was ever brought to theirattention.
我们经历了那么多事，布·拉德利是我们最不担心的。阿蒂克斯说他看不出还会有什么事发生，事情总会有办法平息下来，时间长了，人们就会忘记汤姆·鲁宾逊的存在。
　　Perhaps Atticus was right, but the events of the summer hung over uslike smoke in a closed room. The adults in Maycomb never discussed thecase with Jem and me; it seemed that they discussed it with theirchildren, and their attitude must have been that neither of us couldhelp having Atticus for a parent, so their children must be nice to usin spite of him. The children would never have thought that up forthemselves: had our classmates been left to their own devices, Jem andI would have had several swift, satisfying fist-fights apiece andended the matter for good. As it was, we were compelled to hold ourheads high and be, respectively, a gentleman and a lady. In a way,it was like the era of Mrs. Henry Lafayette Dubose, without all heryelling. There was one odd thing, though, that I never understood:
也许阿蒂克斯是对的，但夏天发生的事情就像密室里的烟雾一样笼罩着我们。梅科姆的大人们从不跟我和杰姆讨论这件事；他们似乎跟孩子们讨论过，他们的态度肯定是，我们俩都无法抗拒有阿蒂克斯这样的父母，所以他们的孩子一定会对我们很好，尽管他如此。孩子们自己绝对想不到这一点：如果我们的同学们任由他们摆布，我和杰姆肯定会各自打上几拳，痛快淋漓，彻底结束这件事。事实上，我们不得不昂首挺胸，分别扮演绅士和淑女的角色。在某种程度上，这就像亨利·拉法耶特·杜博斯夫人的时代，只是没有她那样的叫喊声。不过，有一件事我一直不明白：
　　in spite of Atticus's shortcomings as a parent, people were content tore-elect him to the state legislature that year, as usual, withoutopposition. I came to the conclusion that people were just peculiar, Iwithdrew from them, and never thought about them until I was forcedto.
尽管阿蒂克斯作为父亲有诸多不足，人们还是乐意在那一年再次选举他进入州议员，一如既往，没有遇到任何反对。我最终得出结论，这些人就是有点怪，所以我就避开了他们，直到迫不得已才想起他们。
　　I was forced to one day in school. Once a week, we had a CurrentEvents period. Each child was supposed to clip an item from anewspaper, absorb its contents, and reveal them to the class. Thispractice allegedly overcame a variety of evils: standing in front ofhis fellows encouraged good posture and gave a child poise; deliveringa short talk made him word-conscious; learning his current eventstrengthened his memory; being singled out made him more than everanxious to return to the Group.
有一天，我在学校被迫这样做。每周一次，我们有“时事”课。每个孩子都要从报纸上剪下一条新闻，吸收其中的内容，然后向全班同学展示。据说，这种做法克服了各种弊端：站在同学面前可以培养良好的姿势，让孩子保持镇定；发表简短的演讲可以让他注意用词；了解时事可以增强他的记忆力；被单独挑出来会让他更加渴望回到集体中。
　　The idea was profound, but as usual, in Maycomb it didn't workvery well. In the first place, few rural children had access tonewspapers, so the burden of Current Events was borne by the townchildren, convincing the bus children more deeply that the townchildren got all the attention anyway. The rural children who could,usually brought clippings from what they called The Grit Paper, apublication spurious in the eyes of Miss Gates, our teacher. Why shefrowned when a child recited from The Grit Paper I never knew, butin some way it was associated with liking fiddling, eating syrupybiscuits for lunch, being a holy-roller, singing Sweetly Sings theDonkey and pronouncing it dunkey, all of which the state paidteachers to discourage.
这个想法很深刻，但在梅科姆，它一如既往地效果不佳。首先，农村孩子很少有机会接触报纸，所以《时事》的重担就落在了城里孩子身上，这让校车上的孩子们更加坚信，城里孩子反正也得到了所有的关注。那些能接触报纸的农村孩子，通常会带来他们所谓的《粗俗报纸》的剪报，这在我们老师盖茨小姐眼里就是一份伪劣出版物。我一直不明白为什么她看到孩子背诵《粗俗报纸》就皱眉，但不知何故，这似乎与喜欢拉小提琴、午餐吃糖浆饼干、做个圣滚教徒、唱《驴子唱得甜美》并念成“dunkey”有关，而所有这些行为都是州政府花钱雇来老师阻止的。
　　Even so, not many of the children knew what a Current Event was.
即便如此，还是有很多孩子不知道什么是时事。
　　Little Chuck Little, a hundred years old in his knowledge of cowsand their habits, was halfway through an Uncle Natchell story whenMiss Gates stopped him: "Charles, that is not a current event. That isan advertisement."Cecil Jacobs knew what one was, though. When his turn came, hewent to the front of the room and began, "Old Hitler-""Adolf Hitler, Cecil," said Miss Gates. "One never begins with Oldanybody.""Yes ma'am," he said. "Old Adolf Hitler has been prosecutin' the-""Persecuting Cecil…""Nome, Miss Gates, it says here- well anyway, old Adolf Hitler hasbeen after the Jews and he's puttin' 'em in prisons and he's takingaway all their property and he won't let any of 'em out of the countryand he's washin' all the feeble-minded and-""Washing the feeble-minded?""Yes ma'am, Miss Gates, I reckon they don't have sense enough towash themselves, I don't reckon an idiot could keep hisself clean.
小查克·利特尔，对奶牛及其习性了如指掌，已经百岁高龄了。他正讲着纳切尔叔叔的故事，盖茨小姐打断了他：“查尔斯，这不是时事新闻。那是广告。”不过，塞西尔·雅各布斯知道广告是什么。轮到他时，他走到房间前面，开口说道：“老希特勒——”“阿道夫·希特勒，塞西尔，”盖茨小姐说。“从不从‘老’开始。”“是的，夫人，”他说。 “老阿道夫·希特勒一直在起诉——”“迫害塞西尔……”“不，盖茨小姐，上面写着——不管怎样，老阿道夫·希特勒一直在追捕犹太人，他把他们关进监狱，没收他们的所有财产，不让任何人离开这个国家，他清洗所有弱智和——”“清洗弱智？”“是的，盖茨小姐，我认为他们没有足够的理智来清洗自己，我认为一个白痴无法保持自己的清洁。
　　Well anyway, Hitler's started a program to round up all thehalf-Jews too and he wants to register 'em in case they might wantacause him any trouble and I think this is a bad thing and that's mycurrent event.""Very good, Cecil," said Miss Gates. Puffing, Cecil returned tohis seat.
不管怎样，希特勒已经开始了一项计划，围捕所有半犹太人，他想把他们登记在册，以防他们想给他制造麻烦，我认为这是一件坏事，这就是我目前的情况。”“很好，塞西尔，”盖茨小姐说。塞西尔喘着气回到座位上。
　　A hand went up in the back of the room. "How can he do that?""Who do what?" asked Miss Gates patiently.
房间后面有人举起了一只手。“他怎么能这么做？”“谁干了什么？”盖茨小姐耐心地问道。
　　"I mean how can Hitler just put a lot of folks in a pen like that,looks like the govamint'd stop him," said the owner of the hand.
“我的意思是希特勒怎么能把这么多人关进这样的监狱里，看起来政府会阻止他，”手的主人说道。
　　"Hitler is the government," said Miss Gates, and seizing anopportunity to make education dynamic, she went to the blackboard. Sheprinted DEMOCRACY in large letters. "Democracy," she said. "Doesanybody have a definition?""Us," somebody said.
“希特勒就是政府，”盖茨小姐说道。为了给教育注入活力，她走到黑板前，用大写字母“民主”写下了“民主”。“民主，”她问道。“有人能给它下个定义吗？”“我们，”有人说。
　　I raised my hand, remembering an old campaign slogan Atticus hadonce told me about.
我举起了手，想起了阿提克斯曾经告诉过我的一个古老的竞选口号。
　　"What do you think it means, Jean Louise?""'Equal rights for all, special privileges for none,'" I quoted. ...
　　"Very good, Jean Louise, very good," Miss Gates smiled. In frontof DEMOCRACY, she printed WE ARE A. "Now class, say it all together,'We are a democracy.'"We said it. Then Miss Gates said, "That's the difference betweenAmerica and Germany. We are a democracy and Germany is a dictatorship. ...
　　Dictator-ship," she said. "Over here we don't believe in persecutinganybody. Persecution comes from people who are prejudiced. Prejudice,"she enunciated carefully. "There are no better people in the worldthan the Jews, and why Hitler doesn't think so is a mystery to me."An inquiring soul in the middle of the room said, "Why don't theylike the Jews, you reckon, Miss Gates?""I don't know, Henry. They contribute to every society they live in,and most of all, they are a deeply religious people. Hitler's tryingto do away with religion, so maybe he doesn't like them for thatreason."Cecil spoke up. "Well I don't know for certain," he said, "they'resupposed to change money or somethin', but that ain't no cause topersecute 'em. They're white, ain't they?"Miss Gates said, "When you get to high school, Cecil, you'll learnthat the Jews have been persecuted since the beginning of history,even driven out of their own country. It's one of the most terriblestories in history. Time for arithmetic, children."As I had never liked arithmetic, I spent the period looking outthe window. The only time I ever saw Atticus scowl was when ElmerDavis would give us the latest on Hitler. Atticus would snap off theradio and say, "Hmp!" I asked him once why he was impatient withHitler and Atticus said, "Because he's a maniac."This would not do, I mused, as the class proceeded with its sums. ...
　　One maniac and millions of German folks. Looked to me like they'd shutHitler in a pen instead of letting him shut them up. There wassomething else wrong- I would ask my father about it. ...
　　I did, and he said he could not possibly answer my questionbecause he didn't know the answer. ...
　　"But it's okay to hate Hitler?""It is not," he said. "It's not okay to hate anybody.""Atticus," I said, "there's somethin' I don't understand. Miss Gatessaid it was awful, Hitler doin' like he does, she got real red inthe face about it-""I should think she would.""But-""Yes?""Nothing, sir." I went away, not sure that I could explain toAtticus what was on my mind, not sure that I could clarify what wasonly a feeling. Perhaps Jem could provide the answer. Jem understoodschool things better than Atticus. ...
　　Jem was worn out from a day's water-carrying. There were at leasttwelve banana peels on the floor by his bed, surrounding an empty milkbottle. "Whatcha stuffin' for?" I asked. ...
　　"Coach says if I can gain twenty-five pounds by year after next Ican play," he said. "This is the quickest way.""If you don't throw it all up. Jem," I said, "I wanta ask yousomethin'.""Shoot." He put down his book and stretched his legs. ...
　　"Miss Gates is a nice lady, ain't she?""Why sure," said Jem. "I liked her when I was in her room.""She hates Hitler a lot…""What's wrong with that?""Well, she went on today about how bad it was him treatin' theJews like that. Jem, it's not right to persecute anybody, is it? Imean have mean thoughts about anybody, even, is it?""Gracious no, Scout. What's eatin' you?""Well, coming out of the courthouse that night Miss Gates was- shewas goin' down the steps in front of us, you musta not seen her- shewas talking with Miss Stephanie Crawford. I heard her say it's timesomebody taught 'em a lesson, they were gettin' way abovethemselves, an' the next thing they think they can do is marry us. ...
　　Jem, how can you hate Hitler so bad an' then turn around and be uglyabout folks right at home-"Jem was suddenly furious. He leaped off the bed, grabbed me by thecollar and shook me. "I never wanta hear about that courthouseagain, ever, ever, you hear me? You hear me? Don't you ever say oneword to me about it again, you hear? Now go on!"I was too surprised to cry. I crept from Jem's room and shut thedoor softly, lest undue noise set him off again. Suddenly tired, Iwanted Atticus. He was in the livingroom, and I went to him andtried to get in his lap. ...
　　Atticus smiled. "You're getting so big now, I'll just have to hold apart of you." He held me close. "Scout," he said softly, "don't letJem get you down. He's having a rough time these days. I heard youback there."Atticus said that Jem was trying hard to forget something, butwhat he was really doing was storing it away for a while, until enoughtime passed. Then he would be able to think about it and sort thingsout. When he was able to think about it, Jem would be himself again. ...
　　27Things did settle down, after a fashion, as Atticus said they would. ...
　　By the middle of October, only two small things out of the ordinaryhappened to two Maycomb citizens. No, there were three things, andthey did not directly concern us- the Finches- but in a way they did. ...
　　The first thing was that Mr. Bob Ewell acquired and lost a job ina matter of days and probably made himself unique in the annals of thenineteen-thirties: he was the only man I ever heard of who was firedfrom the WPA for laziness. I suppose his brief burst of fame broughton a briefer burst of industry, but his job lasted only as long as hisnotoriety: Mr. Ewell found himself as forgotten as Tom Robinson. ...
　　Thereafter, he resumed his regular weekly appearances at the welfareoffice for his check, and received it with no grace amid obscuremutterings that the bastards who thought they ran this town wouldn'tpermit an honest man to make a living. Ruth Jones, the welfare lady,said Mr. Ewell openly accused Atticus of getting his job. She wasupset enough to walk down to Atticus's office and tell him about it. ...
　　Atticus told Miss Ruth not to fret, that if Bob Ewell wanted todiscuss Atticus's "getting" his job, he knew the way to the office. ...
　　The second thing happened to Judge Taylor. Judge Taylor was not aSunday-night churchgoer: Mrs. Taylor was. Judge Taylor savored hisSunday night hour alone in his big house, and churchtime found himholed up in his study reading the writings of Bob Taylor （no kin,but the judge would have been proud to claim it）。 One Sunday night,lost in fruity metaphors and florid diction, Judge Taylor'sattention was wrenched from the page by an irritating scratchingnoise. "Hush," he said to Ann Taylor, his fat nondescript dog. Then herealized he was speaking to an empty room; the scratching noise wascoming from the rear of the house. Judge Taylor clumped to the backporch to let Ann out and found the screen door swinging open. A shadowon the corner of the house caught his eye, and that was all he sawof his visitor. Mrs. Taylor came home from church to find herhusband in his chair, lost in the writings of Bob Taylor, with ashotgun across his lap. ...
　　The third thing happened to Helen Robinson, Tom's widow. If Mr. ...
　　Ewell was as forgotten as Tom Robinson, Tom Robinson was asforgotten as Boo Radley. But Tom was not forgotten by his employer,Mr. Link Deas. Mr. Link Deas made a job for Helen. He didn't reallyneed her, but he said he felt right bad about the way things turnedout. I never knew who took care of her children while Helen wasaway. Calpurnia said it was hard on Helen, because she had to walknearly a mile out of her way to avoid the Ewells, who, according toHelen, "chunked at her" the first time she tried to use the publicroad. Mr. Link Deas eventually received the impression that Helenwas coming to work each morning from the wrong direction, anddragged the reason out of her. "Just let it be, Mr. Link, please suh,"Helen begged. "The hell I will," said Mr. Link. He told her to come byhis store that afternoon before she left. She did, and Mr. Link closedhis store, put his hat firmly on his head, and walked Helen home. Hewalked her the short way, by the Ewells'. On his way back, Mr. Linkstopped at the crazy gate. ...
　　"Ewell?" he called. "I say Ewell!"The windows, normally packed with children, were empty. ...
　　"I know every last one of you's in there a-layin' on the floor! ...
　　Now hear me, Bob Ewell: if I hear one more peep outa my girl Helenabout not bein' able to walk this road I'll have you in jail beforesundown!" Mr. Link spat in the dust and walked home. ...
　　Helen went to work next morning and used the public road. Nobodychunked at her, but when she was a few yards beyond the Ewell house,she looked around and saw Mr. Ewell walking behind her. She turned andwalked on, and Mr. Ewell kept the same distance behind her until shereached Mr. Link Deas's house. All the way to the house, Helen said,she heard a soft voice behind her, crooning foul words. Thoroughlyfrightened, she telephoned Mr. Link at his store, which was not toofar from his house. As Mr. Link came out of his store he saw Mr. Ewellleaning on the fence. Mr. Ewell said, "Don't you look at me, LinkDeas, like I was dirt. I ain't jumped your-""First thing you can do, Ewell, is get your stinkin' carcass offmy property. You're leanin' on it an' I can't afford fresh paint forit. Second thing you can do is stay away from my cook or I'll have youup for assault-""I ain't touched her, Link Deas, and ain't about to go with nonigger!""You don't have to touch her, all you have to do is make her afraid,an' if assault ain't enough to keep you locked up awhile, I'll get youin on the Ladies' Law, so get outa my sight! If you don't think I meanit, just bother that girl again!"Mr. Ewell evidently thought he meant it, for Helen reported nofurther trouble. ...
　　"I don't like it, Atticus, I don't like it at all," was AuntAlexandra's assessment of these events. "That man seems to have apermanent running grudge against everybody connected with that case. Iknow how that kind are about paying off grudges, but I don'tunderstand why he should harbor one- he had his way in court, didn'the?""I think I understand," said Atticus. "It might be because heknows in his heart that very few people in Maycomb really believed hisand Mayella's yarns. He thought he'd be a hero, but all he got for hispain was… was, okay, we'll convict this Negro but get back to yourdump. He's had his fling with about everybody now, so he ought to besatisfied. He'll settle down when the weather changes.""But why should he try to burgle John Taylor's house? He obviouslydidn't know John was home or he wouldn't've tried. Only lights Johnshows on Sunday nights are on the front porch and back in his den…""You don't know if Bob Ewell cut that screen, you don't know who didit," said Atticus. "But I can guess. I proved him a liar but John madehim look like a fool. All the time Ewell was on the stand I couldn'tdare look at John and keep a straight face. John looked at him as ifhe were a three-legged chicken or a square egg. Don't tell me judgesdon't try to prejudice juries," Atticus chuckled. ...
　　By the end of October, our lives had become the familiar routineof school, play, study. Jem seemed to have put out of his mindwhatever it was he wanted to forget, and our classmates mercifully letus forget our father's eccentricities. Cecil Jacobs asked me onetime if Atticus was a Radical. When I asked Atticus, Atticus was soamused I was rather annoyed, but he said he wasn't laughing at me. ...
　　He said, "You tell Cecil I'm about as radical as Cotton Tom Heflin."Aunt Alexandra was thriving. Miss Maudie must have silenced thewhole missionary society at one blow, for Aunty again ruled thatroost. Her refreshments grew even more delicious. I learned more aboutthe poor Mrunas' social life from listening to Mrs. Merriweather: theyhad so little sense of family that the whole tribe was one big family. ...
　　A child had as many fathers as there were men in the community, asmany mothers as there were women. J. Grimes Everett was doing hisutmost to change this state of affairs, and desperately needed ourprayers. ...
　　Maycomb was itself again. Precisely the same as last year and theyear before that, with only two minor changes. Firstly, people hadremoved from their store windows and automobiles the stickers thatsaid NRA- WE DO OUR PART. I asked Atticus why, and he said it wasbecause the National Recovery Act was dead. I asked who killed it: ...
　　he said nine old men. ...
　　The second change in Maycomb since last year was not one of nationalsignificance. Until then, Halloween in Maycomb was a completelyunorganized affair. Each child did what he wanted to do, withassistance from other children if there was anything to be moved, suchas placing a light buggy on top of the livery stable. But parentsthought things went too far last year, when the peace of Miss Tuttiand Miss Frutti was shattered. ...
　　Misses Tutti and Frutti Barber were maiden ladies, sisters, wholived together in the only Maycomb residence boasting a cellar. TheBarber ladies were rumored to be Republicans, having migrated fromClanton, Alabama, in 1911. Their ways were strange to us, and why theywanted a cellar nobody knew, but they wanted one and they dug one, andthey spent the rest of their lives chasing generations of children outof it. ...
　　Misses Tutti and Frutti （their names were Sarah and Frances），aside from their Yankee ways, were both deaf. Miss Tutti denied it andlived in a world of silence, but Miss Frutti, not about to missanything, employed an ear trumpet so enormous that Jem declared it wasa loudspeaker from one of those dog Victrolas. ...
　　With these facts in mind and Halloween at hand, some wicked childrenhad waited until the Misses Barber were thoroughly asleep, slippedinto their livingroom （nobody but the Radleys locked up at night），stealthily made away with every stick of furniture therein, and hid itin the cellar. I deny having taken part in such a thing. ...
　　"I heard 'em!" was the cry that awoke the Misses Barber'sneighbors at dawn next morning. "Heard 'em drive a truck up to thedoor! Stomped around like horses. They're in New Orleans by now!"Miss Tutti was sure those traveling fur sellers who came throughtown two days ago had purloined their furniture. "Da-rk they were,"she said. "Syrians."Mr. Heck Tate was summoned. He surveyed the area and said he thoughtit was a local job. Miss Frutti said she'd know a Maycomb voiceanywhere, and there were no Maycomb voices in that parlor lastnight- rolling their r's all over her premises, they were. Nothingless than the bloodhounds must be used to locate their furniture, MissTutti insisted, so Mr. Tate was obliged to go ten miles out theroad, round up the county hounds, and put them on the trail. ...
　　Mr. Tate started them off at the Misses Barber's front steps, butall they did was run around to the back of the house and howl at thecellar door. When Mr. Tate set them in motion three times, hefinally guessed the truth. By noontime that day, there was not abarefooted child to be seen in Maycomb and nobody took off his shoesuntil the hounds were returned. ...
　　So the Maycomb ladies said things would be different this year. ...
　　The high-school auditorium would be open, there would be a pageant forthe grown-ups; apple-bobbing, taffy-pulling, pinning the tail on thedonkey for the children. There would also be a prize of twenty-fivecents for the best Halloween costume, created by the wearer. ...
　　Jem and I both groaned. Not that we'd ever done anything, it was theprinciple of the thing. Jem considered himself too old for Halloweenanyway; he said he wouldn't be caught anywhere near the high school atsomething like that. Oh well, I thought, Atticus would take me. ...
　　I soon learned, however, that my services would be required on stagethat evening. Mrs. Grace Merriweather had composed an original pageantentitled Maycomb County: Ad Astra Per Aspera, and I was to be a ham. ...
　　She thought it would be adorable if some of the children were costumedto represent the county's agricultural products: Cecil Jacobs would bedressed up to look like a cow; Agnes Boone would make a lovelybutterbean, another child would be a peanut, and on down the lineuntil Mrs. Merriweather's imagination and the supply of childrenwere exhausted. ...
　　Our only duties, as far as I could gather from our two rehearsals,were to enter from stage left as Mrs. Merriweather （not only theauthor, but the narrator） identified us. When she called out,"Pork," that was my cue. Then the assembled company would sing,"Maycomb County, Maycomb County, we will aye be true to thee," asthe grand finale, and Mrs. Merriweather would mount the stage with thestate flag. ...
　　My costume was not much of a problem. Mrs. Crenshaw, the localseamstress, had as much imagination as Mrs. Merriweather. Mrs. ...
　　Crenshaw took some chicken wire and bent it into the shape of acured ham. This she covered with brown cloth, and painted it toresemble the original. I could duck under and someone would pull thecontraption down over my head. It came almost to my knees. Mrs. ...
　　Crenshaw thoughtfully left two peepholes for me. She did a fine job. ...
　　Jem said I looked exactly like a ham with legs. There were severaldiscomforts, though: it was hot, it was a close fit; if my nose itchedI couldn't scratch, and once inside I could not get out of it alone. ...
　　When Halloween came, I assumed that the whole family would bepresent to watch me perform, but I was disappointed. Atticus said astactfully as he could that he just didn't think he could stand apageant tonight, he was all in. He had been in Montgomery for a weekand had come home late that afternoon. He thought Jem might escortme if I asked him. ...
　　Aunt Alexandra said she just had to get to bed early, she'd beendecorating the stage all afternoon and was worn out- she stopped shortin the middle of her sentence. She closed her mouth, then opened it tosay something, but no words came. ...
　　"'s matter, Aunty?" I asked. ...
　　"Oh nothing, nothing," she said, "somebody just walked over mygrave." She put away from her whatever it was that gave her a pinprickof apprehension, and suggested that I give the family a preview in thelivingroom. So Jem squeezed me into my costume, stood at thelivingroom door, called out "Po-ork," exactly as Mrs. Merriweatherwould have done, and I marched in. Atticus and Aunt Alexandra weredelighted. ...
　　I repeated my part for Calpurnia in the kitchen and she said I waswonderful. I wanted to go across the street to show Miss Maudie, butJem said she'd probably be at the pageant anyway. ...
　　After that, it didn't matter whether they went or not. Jem said hewould take me. Thus began our longest journey together. ...
　　28The weather was unusually warm for the last day of October. Wedidn't even need jackets. The wind was growing stronger, and Jemsaid it might be raining before we got home. There was no moon. ...
　　The street light on the corner cast sharp shadows on the Radleyhouse. I heard Jem laugh softly. "Bet nobody bothers them tonight," hesaid. Jem was carrying my ham costume, rather awkwardly, as it washard to hold. I thought it gallant of him to do so. ...
　　"It is a scary place though, ain't it?" I said. "Boo doesn't meananybody any harm, but I'm right glad you're along.""You know Atticus wouldn't let you go to the schoolhouse byyourself," Jem said. ...
　　"Don't see why, it's just around the corner and across the yard.""That yard's a mighty long place for little girls to cross atnight," Jem teased. "Ain't you scared of haints?"We laughed. Haints, Hot Steams, incantations, secret signs, hadvanished with our years as mist with sunrise. "What was that oldthing," Jem said, "Angel bright, life-in-death; get off the road,don't suck my breath.""Cut it out, now," I said. We were in front of the Radley Place. ...
　　Jem said, "Boo must not be at home. Listen."High above us in the darkness a solitary mocker poured out hisrepertoire in blissful unawareness of whose tree he sat in, plungingfrom the shrill kee, kee of the sunflower bird to the irasciblequa-ack of a bluejay, to the sad lament of Poor Will, Poor Will,Poor Will. ...
　　We turned the corner and I tripped on a root growing in the road. ...
　　Jem tried to help me, but all he did was drop my costume in thedust. I didn't fall, though, and soon we were on our way again. ...
　　We turned off the road and entered the schoolyard. It was pitchblack. ...
　　"How do you know where we're at, Jem?" I asked, when we had gone afew steps. ...
　　"I can tell we're under the big oak because we're passin' througha cool spot. Careful now, and don't fall again."We had slowed to a cautious gait, and were feeling our way forwardso as not to bump into the tree. The tree was a single and ancientoak; two children could not reach around its trunk and touch hands. Itwas far away from teachers, their spies, and curious neighbors: it wasnear the Radley lot, but the Radleys were not curious. A small patchof earth beneath its branches was packed hard from many fights andfurtive crap games. ...
　　The lights in the high school auditorium were blazing in thedistance, but they blinded us, if anything. "Don't look ahead, Scout,"Jem said. "Look at the ground and you won't fall.""You should have brought the flashlight, Jem.""Didn't know it was this dark. Didn't look like it'd be this darkearlier in the evening. So cloudy, that's why. It'll hold off a while,though."Someone leaped at us. ...
　　"God almighty!" Jem yelled. ...
　　A circle of light burst in our faces, and Cecil Jacobs jumped inglee behind it. "Ha-a-a, gotcha!" he shrieked. "Thought you'd becomin' along this way!""What are you doin' way out here by yourself, boy? Ain't youscared of Boo Radley?"Cecil had ridden safely to the auditorium with his parents, hadn'tseen us, then had ventured down this far because he knew good and wellwe'd be coming along. He thought Mr. Finch'd be with us, though. ...
　　"Shucks, ain't much but around the corner," said Jem. "Who'sscared to go around the corner?" We had to admit that Cecil was prettygood, though. He had given us a fright, and he could tell it allover the schoolhouse, that was his privilege. ...
　　"Say," I said, "ain't you a cow tonight? Where's your costume?""It's up behind the stage," he said. "Mrs. Merriweather says thepageant ain't comin' on for a while. You can put yours back of thestage by mine, Scout, and we can go with the rest of 'em."This was an excellent idea, Jem thought. He also thought it a goodthing that Cecil and I would be together. This way, Jem would beleft to go with people his own age. ...
　　When we reached the auditorium, the whole town was there exceptAtticus and the ladies worn out from decorating, and the usualoutcasts and shut-ins. Most of the county, it seemed, was there: thehall was teeming with slicked-up country people. The high schoolbuilding had a wide downstairs hallway; people milled around boothsthat had been installed along each side. ...
　　"Oh Jem. I forgot my money," I sighed, when I saw them. ...
　　"Atticus didn't," Jem said. "Here's thirty cents, you can do sixthings. See you later on.""Okay," I said, quite content with thirty cents and Cecil. I wentwith Cecil down to the front of the auditorium, through a door onone side, and backstage. I got rid of my ham costume and departed in ahurry, for Mrs. Merriweather was standing at a lectern in front of thefirst row of seats making last-minute, frenzied changes in the script. ...
　　"How much money you got?" I asked Cecil. Cecil had thirty cents,too, which made us even. We squandered our first nickels on theHouse of Horrors, which scared us not at all; we entered the blackseventh-grade room and were led around by the temporary ghoul inresidence and were made to touch several objects alleged to becomponent parts of a human being. "Here's his eyes," we were told whenwe touched two peeled grapes on a saucer. "Here's his heart," whichfelt like raw liver. "These are his innards," and our hands werethrust into a plate of cold spaghetti. ...
　　Cecil and I visited several booths. We each bought a sack of Mrs. ...
　　Judge Taylor's homemade divinity. I wanted to bob for apples, butCecil said it wasn't sanitary. His mother said he might catchsomething from everybody's heads having been in the same tub. "Ain'tanything around town now to catch," I protested. But Cecil said hismother said it was unsanitary to eat after folks. I later asked AuntAlexandra about this, and she said people who held such views wereusually climbers. ...
　　We were about to purchase a blob of taffy when Mrs. Merriweather'srunners appeared and told us to go backstage, it was time to getready. The auditorium was filling with people; the Maycomb County HighSchool band had assembled in front below the stage; the stagefootlights were on and the red velvet curtain rippled and billowedfrom the scurrying going on behind it. ...
　　Backstage, Cecil and I found the narrow hallway teeming with people: ...
　　adults in homemade three-corner hats, Confederate caps,Spanish-American War hats, and World War helmets. Children dressedas various agricultural enterprises crowded around the one smallwindow. ...
　　"Somebody's mashed my costume," I wailed in dismay. Mrs. ...
　　Merriweather galloped to me, reshaped the chicken wire, and thrustme inside. ...
　　"You all right in there, Scout?" asked Cecil. "You sound so far off,like you was on the other side of a hill.""You don't sound any nearer," I said. ...
　　The band played the national anthem, and we heard the audience rise. ...
　　Then the bass drum sounded. Mrs. Merriweather, stationed behind herlectern beside the band, said: "Maycomb County Ad Astra Per Aspera."The bass drum boomed again. "That means," said Mrs. Merriweather,translating for the rustic elements, "from the mud to the stars."She added, unnecessarily, it seemed to me, "A pageant.""Reckon they wouldn't know what it was if she didn't tell 'em,"whispered Cecil, who was immediately shushed. ...
　　"The whole town knows it," I breathed. ...
　　"But the country folks've come in," Cecil said. ...
　　"Be quiet back there," a man's voice ordered, and we were silent. ...
　　The bass drum went boom with every sentence Mrs. Merriweatheruttered. She chanted mournfully about Maycomb County being olderthan the state, that it was a part of the Mississippi and AlabamaTerritories, that the first white man to set foot in the virginforests was the Probate Judge's great-grandfather five timesremoved, who was never heard of again. Then came the fearlessColonel Maycomb, for whom the county was named. ...
　　Andrew Jackson appointed him to a position of authority, and ColonelMaycomb's misplaced self-confidence and slender sense of directionbrought disaster to all who rode with him in the Creek Indian Wars. ...
　　Colonel Maycomb persevered in his efforts to make the region safefor democracy, but his first campaign was his last. His orders,relayed to him by a friendly Indian runner, were to move south. ...
　　After consulting a tree to ascertain from its lichen which way wassouth, and taking no lip from the subordinates who ventured to correcthim, Colonel Maycomb set out on a purposeful journey to rout the enemyand entangled his troops so far northwest in the forest primevalthat they were eventually rescued by settlers moving inland. ...
　　Mrs. Merriweather gave a thirty-minute description of ColonelMaycomb's exploits. I discovered that if I bent my knees I couldtuck them under my costume and more or less sit. I sat down,listened to Mrs. Merriweather's drone and the bass drum's boom and wassoon fast asleep. ...
　　They said later that Mrs. Merriweather was putting her all intothe grand finale, that she had crooned, "Po-ork," with a confidenceborn of pine trees and butterbeans entering on cue. She waited a fewseconds, then called, "Po-ork?" When nothing materialized, she yelled,"Pork!"I must have heard her in my sleep, or the band playing Dixiewoke me, but it was when Mrs. Merriweather triumphantly mounted thestage with the state flag that I chose to make my entrance. Chose isincorrect: I thought I'd better catch up with the rest of them. ...
　　They told me later that Judge Taylor went out behind theauditorium and stood there slapping his knees so hard Mrs. Taylorbrought him a glass of water and one of his pills. ...
　　Mrs. Merriweather seemed to have a hit, everybody was cheering so,but she caught me backstage and told me I had ruined her pageant. ...
　　She made me feel awful, but when Jem came to fetch me he wassympathetic. He said he couldn't see my costume much from where he wassitting. How he could tell I was feeling bad under my costume Idon't know, but he said I did all right, I just came in a little late,that was all. Jem was becoming almost as good as Atticus at making youfeel right when things went wrong. Almost- not even Jem could makeme go through that crowd, and he consented to wait backstage with meuntil the audience left. ...
　　"You wanta take it off, Scout?" he asked. ...
　　"Naw, I'll just keep it on," I said. I could hide my mortificationunder it. ...
　　"You all want a ride home?" someone asked. ...
　　"No sir, thank you," I heard Jem say. "It's just a little walk.""Be careful of haints," the voice said. "Better still, tell thehaints to be careful of Scout.""There aren't many folks left now," Jem told me. "Let's go."We went through the auditorium to the hallway, then down thesteps. It was still black dark. The remaining cars were parked onthe other side of the building, and their headlights were little help. ...
　　"If some of 'em were goin' in our direction we could see better," saidJem. "Here Scout, let me hold onto your- hock. You might lose yourbalance.""I can see all right.""Yeah, but you might lose your balance." I felt a slight pressure onmy head, and assumed that Jem had grabbed that end of the ham. "Yougot me?""Uh huh."We began crossing the black schoolyard, straining to see our feet. ...
　　"Jem," I said, "I forgot my shoes, they're back behind the stage.""Well let's go get 'em." But as we turned around the auditoriumlights went off. "You can get 'em tomorrow," he said. ...
　　"But tomorrow's Sunday," I protested, as Jem turned me homeward. ...
　　"You can get the Janitor to let you in… Scout?""Hm?""Nothing."Jem hadn't started that in a long time. I wondered what he wasthinking. He'd tell me when he wanted to, probably when we got home. Ifelt his fingers press the top of my costume, too hard, it seemed. Ishook my head. "Jem, you don't hafta-""Hush a minute, Scout," he said, pinching me. ...
　　We walked along silently. "Minute's up," I said. "Whatcha thinkin' ...
　　about?" I turned to look at him, but his outline was barely visible. ...
　　"Thought I heard something," he said. "Stop a minute."We stopped. ...
　　"Hear anything?" he asked. ...
　　"No."We had not gone five paces before he made me stop again. ...
　　"Jem, are you tryin' to scare me? You know I'm too old-""Be quiet," he said, and I knew he was not joking. ...
　　The night was still. I could hear his breath coming easily besideme. Occasionally there was a sudden breeze that hit my bare legs,but it was all that remained of a promised windy night. This was thestillness before a thunderstorm. We listened. ...
　　"Heard an old dog just then," I said. ...
　　"It's not that," Jem answered. "I hear it when we're walkin' ...
　　along, but when we stop I don't hear it.""You hear my costume rustlin'. Aw, it's just Halloween got you…"I said it more to convince myself than Jem, for sure enough, as webegan walking, I heard what he was talking about. It was not mycostume. ...
　　"It's just old Cecil," said Jem presently. "He won't get us again. ...
　　Let's don't let him think we're hurrying."We slowed to a crawl. I asked Jem how Cecil could follow us inthis dark, looked to me like he'd bump into us from behind. ...
　　"I can see you, Scout," Jem said. ...
　　"How? I can't see you.""Your fat streaks are showin'. Mrs. Crenshaw painted 'em with someof that shiny stuff so they'd show up under the footlights. I cansee you pretty well, an' I expect Cecil can see you well enough tokeep his distance."I would show Cecil that we knew he was behind us and we were readyfor him. "Cecil Jacobs is a big wet he-en!" I yelled suddenly, turningaround. ...
　　We stopped. There was no acknowledgement save he-en bouncing off thedistant schoolhouse wall. ...
　　"I'll get him," said Jem. "He-y!"Hay-e-hay-e-hay-ey, answered the schoolhouse wall. It was unlikeCecil to hold out for so long; once he pulled a joke he'd repeat ittime and again. We should have been leapt at already. Jem signaled forme to stop again. ...
　　He said softly, "Scout, can you take that thing off?""I think so, but I ain't got anything on under it much.""I've got your dress here.""I can't get it on in the dark.""Okay," he said, "never mind.""Jem, are you afraid?""No. Think we're almost to the tree now. Few yards from that, an' ...
　　we'll be to the road. We can see the street light then." Jem wastalking in an unhurried, flat toneless voice. I wondered how long hewould try to keep the Cecil myth going. ...
　　"You reckon we oughta sing, Jem?""No. Be real quiet again, Scout."We had not increased our pace. Jem knew as well as I that it wasdifficult to walk fast without stumping a toe, tripping on stones, andother inconveniences, and I was barefooted. Maybe it was the windrustling the trees. But there wasn't any wind and there weren't anytrees except the big oak. ...
　　Our company shuffled and dragged his feet, as if wearing heavyshoes. Whoever it was wore thick cotton pants; what I thought weretrees rustling was the soft swish of cotton on cotton, wheek, wheek,with every step. ...
　　I felt the sand go cold under my feet and I knew we were near thebig oak. Jem pressed my head. We stopped and listened. ...
　　Shuffle-foot had not stopped with us this time. His trousers swishedsoftly and steadily. Then they stopped. He was running, running towardus with no child's steps. ...
　　"Run, Scout! Run! Run!" Jem screamed. ...
　　I took one giant step and found myself reeling: my arms useless,in the dark, I could not keep my balance. ...
　　"Jem, Jem, help me, Jem!"Something crushed the chicken wire around me. Metal ripped onmetal and I fell to the ground and rolled as far as I could,floundering to escape my wire prison. From somewhere near by camescuffling, kicking sounds, sounds of shoes and flesh scraping dirt androots. Someone rolled against me and I felt Jem. He was up likelightning and pulling me with him but, though my head and shoulderswere free, I was so entangled we didn't get very far. ...
　　We were nearly to the road when I felt Jem's hand leave me, felt himjerk backwards to the ground. More scuffling, and there came a dullcrunching sound and Jem screamed. ...
　　I ran in the direction of Jem's scream and sank into a flabby malestomach. Its owner said, "Uff!" and tried to catch my arms, but theywere tightly pinioned. His stomach was soft but his arms were likesteel. He slowly squeezed the breath out of me. I could not move. ...
　　Suddenly he was jerked backwards and flung on the ground, almostcarrying me with him. I thought, Jem's up. ...
　　One's mind works very slowly at times. Stunned, I stood theredumbly. The scuffling noises were dying; someone wheezed and the nightwas still again. ...
　　Still but for a man breathing heavily, breathing heavily andstaggering. I thought he went to the tree and leaned against it. Hecoughed violently, a sobbing, bone-shaking cough. ...
　　"Jem?"There was no answer but the man's heavy breathing. ...
　　"Jem?"Jem didn't answer. ...
　　The man began moving around, as if searching for something. Iheard him groan and pull something heavy along the ground. It wasslowly coming to me that there were now four people under the tree. ...
　　"Atticus…？"The man was walking heavily and unsteadily toward the road. ...
　　I went to where I thought he had been and felt frantically along theground, reaching out with my toes. Presently I touched someone. ...
　　"Jem?"My toes touched trousers, a belt buckle, buttons, something Icould not identify, a collar, and a face. A prickly stubble on theface told me it was not Jem's. I smelled stale whiskey. ...
　　I made my way along in what I thought was the direction of the road. ...
　　I was not sure, because I had been turned around so many times. ButI found it and looked down to the street light. A man was passingunder it. The man was walking with the staccato steps of someonecarrying a load too heavy for him. He was going around the corner. ...
　　He was carrying Jem. Jem's arm was dangling crazily in front of him. ...
　　By the time I reached the corner the man was crossing our frontyard. Light from our front door framed Atticus for an instant; heran down the steps, and together, he and the man took Jem inside. ...
　　I was at the front door when they were going down the hall. AuntAlexandra was running to meet me. "Call Dr. Reynolds!" Atticus's voicecame sharply from Jem's room. "Where's Scout?""Here she is," Aunt Alexandra called, pulling me along with her tothe telephone. She tugged at me anxiously. "I'm all right, Aunty," Isaid, "you better call."She pulled the receiver from the hook and said, "Eula May, get Dr. ...
　　Reynolds, quick!""Agnes, is your father home? Oh God, where is he? Please tell him tocome over here as soon as he comes in. Please, it's urgent!"There was no need for Aunt Alexandra to identify herself, peoplein Maycomb knew each other's voices. ...
　　Atticus came out of Jem's room. The moment Aunt Alexandra brokethe connection, Atticus took the receiver from her. He rattled thehook, then said, "Eula May, get me the sheriff, please.""Heck? Atticus Finch. Someone's been after my children. Jem'shurt. Between here and the schoolhouse. I can't leave my boy. Runout there for me, please, and see if he's still around. Doubt ifyou'll find him now, but I'd like to see him if you do. Got to go now. ...
　　Thanks, Heck.""Atticus, is Jem dead?""No, Scout. Look after her, sister," he called, as he went downthe hall. ...
　　Aunt Alexandra's fingers trembled as she unwound the crushedfabric and wire from around me. "Are you all right, darling?" sheasked over and over as she worked me free. ...
　　It was a relief to be out. My arms were beginning to tingle, andthey were red with small hexagonal marks. I rubbed them, and they feltbetter. ...
　　"Aunty, is Jem dead?""No- no, darling, he's unconscious. We won't know how badly he'shurt until Dr. Reynolds gets here. Jean Louise, what happened?""I don't know."She left it at that. She brought me something to put on, and had Ithought about it then, I would have never let her forget it: in herdistraction, Aunty brought me my overalls. "Put these on, darling,"she said, handing me the garments she most despised. ...
　　She rushed back to Jem's room, then came to me in the hall. Shepatted me vaguely, and went back to Jem's room. ...
　　A car stopped in front of the house. I knew Dr. Reynolds's stepalmost as well as my father's. He had brought Jem and me into theworld, had led us through every childhood disease known to manincluding the time Jem fell out of the treehouse, and he had neverlost our friendship. Dr. Reynolds said if we had been boil-pronethings would have been different, but we doubted it. ...
　　He came in the door and said, "Good Lord." He walked toward me,said, "You're still standing," and changed his course. He knew everyroom in the house. He also knew that if I was in bad shape, so wasJem. ...
　　After ten forevers Dr. Reynolds returned. "Is Jem dead?" I asked. ...
　　"Far from it," he said, squatting down to me. "He's got a bump onthe head just like yours, and a broken arm. Scout, look that way-no, don't turn your head, roll your eyes. Now look over yonder. He'sgot a bad break, so far as I can tell now it's in the elbow. Likesomebody tried to wring his arm off… Now look at me.""Then he's not dead?""No-o!" Dr. Reynolds got to his feet. "We can't do much tonight," hesaid, "except try to make him as comfortable as we can. We'll haveto X-ray his arm- looks like he'll be wearing his arm 'way out byhis side for a while. Don't worry, though, he'll be as good as new. ...
　　Boys his age bounce."While he was talking, Dr. Reynolds had been looking keenly at me,lightly fingering the bump that was coming on my forehead. "Youdon't feel broke anywhere, do you?"Dr. Reynolds's small joke made me smile. "Then you don't thinkhe's dead, then?"He put on his hat. "Now I may be wrong, of course, but I thinkhe's very alive. Shows all the symptoms of it. Go have a look athim, and when I come back we'll get together and decide."Dr. Reynolds's step was young and brisk. Mr. Heck Tate's was not. ...
　　His heavy boots punished the porch and he opened the door awkwardly,but he said the same thing Dr. Reynolds said when he came in. "You allright, Scout?" he added. ...
　　"Yes sir, I'm goin' in to see Jem. Atticus'n'them's in there.""I'll go with you," said Mr. Tate. ...
　　Aunt Alexandra had shaded Jem's reading light with a towel, andhis room was dim. Jem was lying on his back. There was an ugly markalong one side of his face. His left arm lay out from his body; hiselbow was bent slightly, but in the wrong direction. Jem was frowning. ...
　　"Jem…？"Atticus spoke. "He can't hear you, Scout, he's out like a light. ...
　　He was coming around, but Dr. Reynolds put him out again.""Yes sir." I retreated. Jem's room was large and square. AuntAlexandra was sitting in a rocking-chair by the fireplace. The man whobrought Jem in was standing in a corner, leaning against the wall. ...
　　He was some countryman I did not know. He had probably been at thepageant, and was in the vicinity when it happened. He must haveheard our screams and come running. ...
　　Atticus was standing by Jem's bed. ...
　　Mr. Heck Tate stood in the doorway. His hat was in his hand, and aflashlight bulged from his pants pocket. He was in his workingclothes. ...
　　"Come in, Heck," said Atticus. "Did you find anything? I can'tconceive of anyone low-down enough to do a thing like this, but I hopeyou found him."Mr. Tate sniffed. He glanced sharply at the man in the corner,nodded to him, then looked around the room- at Jem, at Aunt Alexandra,then at Atticus. ...
　　"Sit down, Mr. Finch," he said pleasantly. ...
　　Atticus said, "Let's all sit down. Have that chair, Heck. I'll getanother one from the livingroom."Mr. Tate sat in Jem's desk chair. He waited until Atticus returnedand settled himself. I wondered why Atticus had not brought a chairfor the man in the corner, but Atticus knew the ways of country peoplefar better than I. Some of his rural clients would park theirlong-eared steeds under the chinaberry trees in the back yard, andAtticus would often keep appointments on the back steps. This onewas probably more comfortable where he was. ...
　　"Mr. Finch," said Mr. Tate, "tell you what I found. I found a littlegirl's dress- it's out there in my car. That your dress, Scout?""Yes sir, if it's a pink one with smockin'," I said. Mr. Tate wasbehaving as if he were on the witness stand. He liked to tell thingshis own way, untrammeled by state or defense, and sometimes it tookhim a while. ...
　　"I found some funny-looking pieces of muddy-colored cloth-""That's m'costume, Mr. Tate."Mr. Tate ran his hands down his thighs. He rubbed his left arm andinvestigated Jem's mantelpiece, then he seemed to be interested in thefireplace. His fingers sought his long nose. ...
　　"What is it, Heck?" said Atticus. ...
　　Mr. Tate found his neck and rubbed it. "Bob Ewell's lyin' on theground under that tree down yonder with a kitchen knife stuck up underhis ribs. He's dead, Mr. Finch."29Aunt Alexandra got up and reached for the mantelpiece. Mr. Taterose, but she declined assistance. For once in his life, Atticus'sinstinctive courtesy failed him: he sat where he was. ...
　　Somehow, I could think of nothing but Mr. Bob Ewell saying he'dget Atticus if it took him the rest of his life. Mr. Ewell almostgot him, and it was the last thing he did. ...
　　"Are you sure?" Atticus said bleakly. ...
　　"He's dead all right," said Mr. Tate. "He's good and dead. Hewon't hurt these children again.""I didn't mean that." Atticus seemed to be talking in his sleep. Hisage was beginning to show, his one sign of inner turmoil, the strongline of his jaw melted a little, one became aware of telltalecreases forming under his ears, one noticed not his jet-black hair butthe gray patches growing at his temples. ...
　　"Hadn't we better go to the livingroom?" Aunt Alexandra said atlast. ...
　　"If you don't mind," said Mr. Tate, "I'd rather us stay in here ifit won't hurt Jem any. I want to have a look at his injuries whileScout… tells us about it.""Is it all right if I leave?" she asked. "I'm just one person toomany in here. I'll be in my room if you want me, Atticus." AuntAlexandra went to the door, but she stopped and turned. "Atticus, Ihad a feeling about this tonight- I- this is my fault," she began. ...
　　"I should have-"Mr. Tate held up his hand. "You go ahead, Miss Alexandra, I knowit's been a shock to you. And don't you fret yourself aboutanything- why, if we followed our feelings all the time we'd be likecats chasin' their tails. Miss Scout, see if you can tell us whathappened, while it's still fresh in your mind. You think you can? ...
　　Did you see him following you?"I went to Atticus and felt his arms go around me. I buried my headin his lap. "We started home. I said Jem, I've forgot m'shoes. ...
　　Soon's we started back for 'em the lights went out. Jem said I couldget 'em tomorrow…""Scout, raise up so Mr. Tate can hear you," Atticus said. Icrawled into his lap. ...
　　"Then Jem said hush a minute. I thought he was thinkin'- he alwayswants you to hush so he can think- then he said he heard somethin'. Wethought it was Cecil.""Cecil?""Cecil Jacobs. He scared us once tonight, an' we thought it washim again. He had on a sheet. They gave a quarter for the bestcostume, I don't know who won it-""Where were you when you thought it was Cecil?""Just a little piece from the schoolhouse. I yelled somethin' athim-""You yelled, what?""Cecil Jacobs is a big fat hen, I think. We didn't hear nothin'-then Jem yelled hello or somethin' loud enough to wake the dead-""Just a minute, Scout," said Mr. Tate. "Mr. Finch, did you hearthem?"Atticus said he didn't. He had the radio on. Aunt Alexandra had hersgoing in her bedroom. He remembered because she told him to turn hisdown a bit so she could hear hers. Atticus smiled. "I always play aradio too loud.""I wonder if the neighbors heard anything…" said Mr. Tate. ...
　　"I doubt it, Heck. Most of them listen to their radios or go tobed with the chickens. Maudie Atkinson may have been up, but I doubtit.""Go ahead, Scout," Mr. Tate said. ...
　　"Well, after Jem yelled we walked on. Mr. Tate, I was shut up inmy costume but I could hear it myself, then. Footsteps, I mean. Theywalked when we walked and stopped when we stopped. Jem said he couldsee me because Mrs. Crenshaw put some kind of shiny paint on mycostume. I was a ham.""How's that?" asked Mr. Tate, startled. ...
　　Atticus described my role to Mr. Tate, plus the construction of mygarment. "You should have seen her when she came in," he said, "it wascrushed to a pulp."Mr. Tate rubbed his chin. "I wondered why he had those marks on him,His sleeves were perforated with little holes. There were one or twolittle puncture marks on his arms to match the holes. Let me seethat thing if you will, sir."Atticus fetched the remains of my costume. Mr. Tate turned it overand bent it around to get an idea of its former shape. "This thingprobably saved her life," he said. "Look."He pointed with a long forefinger. A shiny clean line stood out onthe dull wire. "Bob Ewell meant business," Mr. Tate muttered. ...
　　"He was out of his mind," said Atticus. ...
　　"Don't like to contradict you, Mr. Finch- wasn't crazy, mean ashell. Low-down skunk with enough liquor in him to make him braveenough to kill children. He'd never have met you face to face."Atticus shook his head. "I can't conceive of a man who'd-""Mr. Finch, there's just some kind of men you have to shoot beforeyou can say hidy to 'em. Even then, they ain't worth the bullet ittakes to shoot 'em. Ewell 'as one of 'em."Atticus said, "I thought he got it all out of him the day hethreatened me. Even if he hadn't, I thought he'd come after me.""He had guts enough to pester a poor colored woman, he had gutsenough to pester Judge Taylor when he thought the house was empty,so do you think he'da met you to your face in daylight?" Mr. Tatesighed. "We'd better get on. Scout, you heard him behind you-""Yes sir. When we got under the tree-""How'd you know you were under the tree, you couldn't see thunderout there.""I was barefooted, and Jem says the ground's always cooler under atree.""We'll have to make him a deputy, go ahead.""Then all of a sudden somethin' grabbed me an' mashed mycostume… think I ducked on the ground… heard a tusslin' underthe tree sort of… they were bammin' against the trunk, sounded like. ...
　　Jem found me and started pullin' me toward the road. Some- Mr. Ewellyanked him down, I reckon. They tussled some more and then there wasthis funny noise- Jem hollered…" I stopped. That was Jem's arm. ...
　　"Anyway, Jem hollered and I didn't hear him any more an' the nextthing- Mr. Ewell was tryin' to squeeze me to death, I reckon… thensomebody yanked Mr. Ewell down. Jem must have got up, I guess. ...
　　That's all I know…""And then?" Mr. Tate was looking at me sharply. ...
　　"Somebody was staggerin' around and pantin' and- coughing fit todie. I thought it was Jem at first, but it didn't sound like him, so Iwent lookin' for Jem on the ground. I thought Atticus had come to helpus and had got wore out-""Who was it?""Why there he is, Mr. Tate, he can tell you his name."As I said it, I half pointed to the man in the corner, but broughtmy arm down quickly lest Atticus reprimand me for pointing. It wasimpolite to point. ...
　　He was still leaning against the wall. He had been leaning againstthe wall when I came into the room, his arms folded across hischest. As I pointed he brought his arms down and pressed the palmsof his hands against the wall. They were white hands, sickly whitehands that had never seen the sun, so white they stood out garishlyagainst the dull cream wall in the dim light of Jem's room. ...
　　I looked from his hands to his sand-stained khaki pants; my eyestraveled up his thin frame to his torn denim shirt. His face was aswhite as his hands, but for a shadow on his jutting chin. His cheekswere thin to hollowness; his mouth was wide; there were shallow,almost delicate indentations at his temples, and his gray eyes were socolorless I thought he was blind. His hair was dead and thin, almostfeathery on top of his head. ...
　　When I pointed to him his palms slipped slightly, leaving greasysweat streaks on the wall, and he hooked his thumbs in his belt. Astrange small spasm shook him, as if he heard fingernails scrapeslate, but as I gazed at him in wonder the tension slowly drained fromhis face. His lips parted into a timid smile, and our neighbor's imageblurred with my sudden tears. ...
　　"Hey, Boo," I said. ...
　　30"Mr. Arthur, honey," said Atticus, gently correcting me. "JeanLouise, this is Mr. Arthur Radley. I believe he already knows you."If Atticus could blandly introduce me to Boo Radley at a time likethis, well- that was Atticus. ...
　　Boo saw me run instinctively to the bed where Jem was sleeping,for the same shy smile crept across his face. Hot withembarrassment, I tried to cover up by covering Jem up. ...
　　"Ah-ah, don't touch him," Atticus said. ...
　　Mr. Heck Tate sat looking intently at Boo through his horn-rimmedglasses. He was about to speak when Dr. Reynolds came down the hall. ...
　　"Everybody out," he said, as he came in the door. "Evenin',Arthur, didn't notice you the first time I was here."Dr. Reynolds's voice was as breezy as his step, as though he hadsaid it every evening of his life, an announcement that astounded meeven more than being in the same room with Boo Radley. Of course…even Boo Radley got sick sometimes, I thought. But on the other hand Iwasn't sure. ...
　　Dr. Reynolds was carrying a big package wrapped in newspaper. He putit down on Jem's desk and took off his coat. "You're quite satisfiedhe's alive, now? Tell you how I knew. When I tried to examine him hekicked me. Had to put him out good and proper to touch him. Soscat," he said to me. ...
　　"Er-" said Atticus, glancing at Boo. "Heck, let's go out on thefront porch. There are plenty of chairs out there, and it's still warmenough."I wondered why Atticus was inviting us to the front porch instead ofthe livingroom, then I understood. The livingroom lights wereawfully strong. ...
　　We filed out, first Mr. Tate- Atticus was waiting at the door forhim to go ahead of him. Then he changed his mind and followed Mr. ...
　　Tate. ...
　　People have a habit of doing everyday things even under the oddestconditions. I was no exception: "Come along, Mr. Arthur," I heardmyself saying, "you don't know the house real well. I'll just take youto the porch, sir."He looked down at me and nodded. ...
　　I led him through the hall and past the livingroom. ...
　　"Won't you have a seat, Mr. Arthur? This rocking-chair's nice andcomfortable."My small fantasy about him was alive again: he would be sitting onthe porch… right pretty spell we're having, isn't it, Mr. Arthur? ...
　　Yes, a right pretty spell. Feeling slightly unreal, I led him to thechair farthest from Atticus and Mr. Tate. It was in deep shadow. Boowould feel more comfortable in the dark. ...
　　Atticus was sitting in the swing, and Mr. Tate was in a chair nextto him. The light from the livingroom windows was strong on them. Isat beside Boo. ...
　　"Well, Heck," Atticus was saying, "I guess the thing to do- goodLord, I'm losing my memory…" Atticus pushed up his glasses andpressed his fingers to his eyes. "Jem's not quite thirteen… no, he'salready thirteen- I can't remember. Anyway, it'll come before countycourt-""What will, Mr. Finch?" Mr. Tate uncrossed his legs and leanedforward. ...
　　"Of course it was clear-cut self defense, but I'll have to go to theoffice and hunt up-""Mr. Finch, do you think Jem killed Bob Ewell? Do you think that?""You heard what Scout said, there's no doubt about it. She saidJem got up and yanked him off her- he probably got hold of Ewell'sknife somehow in the dark… we'll find out tomorrow.""Mis-ter Finch, hold on," said Mr. Tate. "Jem never stabbed BobEwell."Atticus was silent for a moment. He looked at Mr. Tate as if heappreciated what he said. But Atticus shook his head. ...
　　"Heck, it's mighty kind of you and I know you're doing it fromthat good heart of yours, but don't start anything like that."Mr. Tate got up and went to the edge of the porch. He spat intothe shrubbery, then thrust his hands into his hip pockets and facedAtticus. "Like what?" he said. ...
　　"I'm sorry if I spoke sharply, Heck," Atticus said simply, "butnobody's hushing this up. I don't live that way.""Nobody's gonna hush anything up, Mr. Finch."Mr. Tate's voice was quiet, but his boots were planted so solidly onthe porch floorboards it seemed that they grew there. A curiouscontest, the nature of which eluded me, was developing between myfather and the sheriff. ...
　　It was Atticus's turn to get up and go to the edge of the porch. ...
　　He said, "H'rm," and spat dryly into the yard. He put his hands in hispockets and faced Mr. Tate. ...
　　"Heck, you haven't said it, but I know what you're thinking. Thankyou for it. Jean Louise-" he turned to me. "You said Jem yanked Mr. ...
　　Ewell off you?""Yes sir, that's what I thought… I-""See there, Heck? Thank you from the bottom of my heart, but I don'twant my boy starting out with something like this over his head. ...
　　Best way to clear the air is to have it all out in the open. Let thecounty come and bring sandwiches. I don't want him growing up with awhisper about him, I don't want anybody saying, 'Jem Finch… hisdaddy paid a mint to get him out of that.' Sooner we get this overwith the better.""Mr. Finch," Mr. Tate said stolidly, "Bob Ewell fell on his knife. ...
　　He killed himself."Atticus walked to the corner of the porch. He looked at the wisteriavine. In his own way, I thought, each was as stubborn as the other. ...
　　I wondered who would give in first. Atticus's stubbornness was quietand rarely evident, but in some ways he was as set as the Cunninghams. ...
　　Mr. Tate's was unschooled and blunt, but it was equal to my father's. ...
　　"Heck," Atticus's back was turned. "If this thing's hushed upit'll be a simple denial to Jem of the way I've tried to raise him. ...
　　Sometimes I think I'm a total failure as a parent, but I'm all they'vegot. Before Jem looks at anyone else he looks at me, and I've tried tolive so I can look squarely back at him… if I connived atsomething like this, frankly I couldn't meet his eye, and the day Ican't do that I'll know I've lost him. I don't want to lose him andScout, because they're all I've got.""Mr. Finch." Mr. Tate was still planted to the floorboards. "BobEwell fell on his knife. I can prove it."Atticus wheeled around. His hands dug into his pockets. "Heck, can'tyou even try to see it my way? You've got children of your own, butI'm older than you. When mine are grown I'll be an old man if I'mstill around, but right now I'm- if they don't trust me they won'ttrust anybody. Jem and Scout know what happened. If they hear of mesaying downtown something different happened- Heck, I won't havethem any more. I can't live one way in town and another way in myhome."Mr. Tate rocked on his heels and said patiently, "He'd flung Jemdown, he stumbled over a root under that tree and- look, I can showyou."Mr. Tate reached in his side pocket and withdrew a longswitchblade knife. As he did so, Dr. Reynolds came to the door. "Theson- deceased's under that tree, doctor, just inside the schoolyard. ...
　　Got a flashlight? Better have this one.""I can ease around and turn my car lights on," said Dr. Reynolds,but he took Mr. Tate's flashlight. "Jem's all right. He won't wakeup tonight, I hope, so don't worry. That the knife that killed him,Heck?""No sir, still in him. Looked like a kitchen knife from thehandle. Ken oughta be there with the hearse by now, doctor, 'night."Mr. Tate flicked open the knife. "It was like this," he said. Heheld the knife and pretended to stumble; as he leaned forward his leftarm went down in front of him. "See there? Stabbed himself throughthat soft stuff between his ribs. His whole weight drove it in."Mr. Tate closed the knife and jammed it back in his pocket. "Scoutis eight years old," he said. "She was too scared to know exactly whatwent on.""You'd be surprised," Atticus said grimly. ...
　　"I'm not sayin' she made it up, I'm sayin' she was too scared toknow exactly what happened. It was mighty dark out there, black asink. 'd take somebody mighty used to the dark to make a competentwitness…""I won't have it," Atticus said softly. ...
　　"God damn it, I'm not thinking of Jem!"Mr. Tate's boot hit the floorboards so hard the lights in MissMaudie's bedroom went on. Miss Stephanie Crawford's lights went on. ...
　　Atticus and Mr. Tate looked across the street, then at each other. ...
　　They waited. ...
　　When Mr. Tate spoke again his voice was barely audible. "Mr. ...
　　Finch, I hate to fight you when you're like this. You've been undera strain tonight no man should ever have to go through. Why youain't in the bed from it I don't know, but I do know that for once youhaven't been able to put two and two together, and we've got to settlethis tonight because tomorrow'll be too late. Bob Ewell's got akitchen knife in his craw."Mr. Tate added that Atticus wasn't going to stand there and maintainthat any boy Jem's size with a busted arm had fight enough left in himto tackle and kill a grown man in the pitch dark. ...
　　"Heck," said Atticus abruptly, "that was a switchblade you werewaving. Where'd you get it?""Took it off a drunk man," Mr. Tate answered coolly. ...
　　I was trying to remember. Mr. Ewell was on me… then he wentdown… Jem must have gotten up. At least I thought…"Heck?""I said I took it off a drunk man downtown tonight. Ewell probablyfound that kitchen knife in the dump somewhere. Honed it down andbided his time… just bided his time."Atticus made his way to the swing and sat down. His hands dangledlimply between his knees. He was looking at the floor. He had movedwith the same slowness that night in front of the jail, when I thoughtit took him forever to fold his newspaper and toss it in his chair. ...
　　Mr. Tate clumped softly around the porch. "It ain't your decision,Mr. Finch, it's all mine. It's my decision and my responsibility. ...
　　For once, if you don't see it my way, there's not much you can doabout it. If you wanta try, I'll call you a liar to your face. Yourboy never stabbed Bob Ewell," he said slowly, "didn't come near a mileof it and now you know it. All he wanted to do was get him and hissister safely home."Mr. Tate stopped pacing. He stopped in front of Atticus, and hisback was to us. "I'm not a very good man, sir, but I am sheriff ofMaycomb County. Lived in this town all my life an' I'm goin' onforty-three years old. Know everything that's happened here sincebefore I was born. There's a black boy dead for no reason, and the manresponsible for it's dead. Let the dead bury the dead this time, Mr. ...
　　Finch. Let the dead bury the dead."Mr. Tate went to the swing and picked up his hat. It was lyingbeside Atticus. Mr. Tate pushed back his hair and put his hat on. ...
　　"I never heard tell that it's against the law for a citizen to dohis utmost to prevent a crime from being committed, which is exactlywhat he did, but maybe you'll say it's my duty to tell the town allabout it and not hush it up. Know what'd happen then? All the ladiesin Maycomb includin' my wife'd be knocking on his door bringingangel food cakes. To my way of thinkin', Mr. Finch, taking the one manwho's done you and this town a great service an' draggin' him with hisshy ways into the limelight- to me, that's a sin. It's a sin and I'mnot about to have it on my head. If it was any other man, it'd bedifferent. But not this man, Mr. Finch."Mr. Tate was trying to dig a hole in the floor with the toe of hisboot. He pulled his nose, then he massaged his left arm. "I may not bemuch, Mr. Finch, but I'm still sheriff of Maycomb County and Bob Ewellfell on his knife. Good night, sir."Mr. Tate stamped off the porch and strode across the front yard. Hiscar door slammed and he drove away. ...
　　Atticus sat looking at the floor for a long time. Finally heraised his head. "Scout," he said, "Mr. Ewell fell on his knife. Canyou possibly understand?"Atticus looked like he needed cheering up. I ran to him and huggedhim and kissed him with all my might. "Yes sir, I understand," Ireassured him. "Mr. Tate was right."Atticus disengaged himself and looked at me. "What do you mean?""Well, it'd be sort of like shootin' a mockingbird, wouldn't it?"Atticus put his face in my hair and rubbed it. When he got up andwalked across the porch into the shadows, his youthful step hadreturned. Before he went inside the house, he stopped in front ofBoo Radley. "Thank you for my children, Arthur," he said. ...
　　31When Boo Radley shuffled to his feet, light from the livingroomwindows glistened on his forehead. Every move he made was uncertain,as if he were not sure his hands and feet could make proper contactwith the things he touched. He coughed his dreadful raling cough,and was so shaken he had to sit down again. His hand searched forhis hip pocket, and he pulled out a handkerchief. He coughed intoit, then he wiped his forehead. ...
　　Having been so accustomed to his absence, I found it incredible thathe had been sitting beside me all this time, present. He had notmade a sound. ...
　　Once more, he got to his feet. He turned to me and nodded toward thefront door. ...
　　"You'd like to say good night to Jem, wouldn't you, Mr. Arthur? Comeright in."I led him down the hall. Aunt Alexandra was sitting by Jem's bed. ...
　　"Come in, Arthur," she said. "He's still asleep. Dr. Reynolds gave hima heavy sedative. Jean Louise, is your father in the livingroom?""Yes ma'am, I think so.""I'll just go speak to him a minute. Dr. Reynolds left some…"her voice trailed away. ...
　　Boo had drifted to a corner of the room, where he stood with hischin up, peering from a distance at Jem. I took him by the hand, ahand surprisingly warm for its whiteness. I tugged him a little, andhe allowed me to lead him to Jem's bed. ...
　　Dr. Reynolds had made a tent-like arrangement over Jem's arm, tokeep the cover off, I guess, and Boo leaned forward and looked overit. An expression of timid curiosity was on his face, as though he hadnever seen a boy before. His mouth was slightly open, and he looked atJem from head to foot. Boo's hand came up, but he let it drop to hisside. ...
　　"You can pet him, Mr. Arthur, he's asleep. You couldn't if he wasawake, though, he wouldn't let you…" I found myself explaining. ...
　　"Go ahead."Boo's hand hovered over Jem's head. ...
　　"Go on, sir, he's asleep."His hand came down lightly on Jem's hair. ...
　　I was beginning to learn his body English. His hand tightened onmine and he indicated that he wanted to leave. ...
　　I led him to the front porch, where his uneasy steps halted. Hewas still holding my hand and he gave no sign of letting me go. ...
　　"Will you take me home?"He almost whispered it, in the voice of a child afraid of the dark. ...
　　I put my foot on the top step and stopped. I would lead himthrough our house, but I would never lead him home. ...
　　"Mr. Arthur, bend your arm down here, like that. That's right, sir."I slipped my hand into the crook of his arm. ...
　　He had to stoop a little to accommodate me, but if Miss StephanieCrawford was watching from her upstairs window, she would see ArthurRadley escorting me down the sidewalk, as any gentleman would do. ...
　　We came to the street light on the corner, and I wondered how manytimes Dill had stood there hugging the fat pole, watching, waiting,hoping. I wondered how many times Jem and I had made this journey, butI entered the Radley front gate for the second time in my life. Booand I walked up the steps to the porch. His fingers found the frontdoorknob. He gently released my hand, opened the door, went inside,and shut the door behind him. I never saw him again. ...
　　Neighbors bring food with death and flowers with sickness and littlethings in between. Boo was our neighbor. He gave us two soap dolls,a broken watch and chain, a pair of good-luck pennies, and ourlives. But neighbors give in return. We never put back into the treewhat we took out of it: we had given him nothing, and it made me sad. ...
　　I turned to go home. Street lights winked down the street all theway to town. I had never seen our neighborhood from this angle. ...
　　There were Miss Maudie's, Miss Stephanie's- there was our house, Icould see the porch swing- Miss Rachel's house was beyond us,plainly visible. I could even see Mrs. Dubose's. ...
　　I looked behind me. To the left of the brown door was a longshuttered window. I walked to it, stood in front of it, and turnedaround. In daylight, I thought, you could see to the postofficecorner. ...
　　Daylight… in my mind, the night faded. It was daytime and theneighborhood was busy. Miss Stephanie Crawford crossed the street totell the latest to Miss Rachel. Miss Maudie bent over her azaleas. ...
　　It was summertime, and two children scampered down the sidewalk towarda man approaching in the distance. The man waved, and the childrenraced each other to him. ...
　　It was still summertime, and the children came closer. A boy trudgeddown the sidewalk dragging a fishingpole behind him. A man stoodwaiting with his hands on his hips. Summertime, and his childrenplayed in the front yard with their friend, enacting a strangelittle drama of their own invention. ...
　　It was fall, and his children fought on the sidewalk in front ofMrs. Dubose's. The boy helped his sister to her feet, and they madetheir way home. Fall, and his children trotted to and fro around thecorner, the day's woes and triumphs on their faces. They stopped at anoak tree, delighted, puzzled, apprehensive. ...
　　Winter, and his children shivered at the front gate, silhouettedagainst a blazing house. Winter, and a man walked into the street,dropped his glasses, and shot a dog. ...
　　Summer, and he watched his children's heart break. Autumn again, andBoo's children needed him. ...
　　Atticus was right. One time he said you never really know a manuntil you stand in his shoes and walk around in them. Just standing onthe Radley porch was enough. ...
　　The street lights were fuzzy from the fine rain that was falling. AsI made my way home, I felt very old, but when I looked at the tip ofmy nose I could see fine misty beads, but looking cross-eyed made medizzy so I quit. As I made my way home, I thought what a thing to tellJem tomorrow. He'd be so mad he missed it he wouldn't speak to mefor days. As I made my way home, I thought Jem and I would get grownbut there wasn't much else left for us to learn, except possiblyalgebra. ...
　　I ran up the steps and into the house. Aunt Alexandra had gone tobed, and Atticus's room was dark. I would see if Jem might bereviving. Atticus was in Jem's room, sitting by his bed. He wasreading a book. ...
　　"Is Jem awake yet?""Sleeping peacefully. He won't be awake until morning.""Oh. Are you sittin' up with him?""Just for an hour or so. Go to bed, Scout. You've had a long day.""Well, I think I'll stay with you for a while.""Suit yourself," said Atticus. It must have been after midnight, andI was puzzled by his amiable acquiescence. He was shrewder than I,however: the moment I sat down I began to feel sleepy. ...
　　"Whatcha readin'?" I asked. ...
　　Atticus turned the book over. "Something of Jem's. Called TheGray Ghost."I was suddenly awake. "Why'd you get that one?""Honey, I don't know. Just picked it up. One of the few things Ihaven't read," he said pointedly. ...
　　"Read it out loud, please, Atticus. It's real scary.""No," he said. "You've had enough scaring for a while. This is too-""Atticus, I wasn't scared."He raised his eyebrows, and I protested: "Leastways not till Istarted telling Mr. Tate about it. Jem wasn't scared. Asked him and hesaid he wasn't. Besides, nothin's real scary except in books."Atticus opened his mouth to say something, but shut it again. Hetook his thumb from the middle of the book and turned back to thefirst page. I moved over and leaned my head against his knee. ...
　　"H'rm," he said. "The Gray Ghost, by Seckatary Hawkins. ChapterOne…"I willed myself to stay awake, but the rain was so soft and the roomwas so warm and his voice was so deep and his knee was so snug thatI slept. ...
　　Seconds later, it seemed, his shoe was gently nudging my ribs. Helifted me to my feet and walked me to my room. "Heard every word yousaid," I muttered. "…wasn't sleep at all, 's about a ship an' ...
　　Three-Fingered Fred 'n' Stoner's Boy…"He unhooked my overalls, leaned me against him, and pulled them off. ...
　　He held me up with one hand and reached for my pajamas with the other. ...
　　"Yeah, an' they all thought it was Stoner's Boy messin' up theirclubhouse an' throwin' ink all over it an'…"He guided me to the bed and sat me down. He lifted my legs and putme under the cover. ...
　　"An' they chased him 'n' never could catch him 'cause they didn'tknow what he looked like, an' Atticus, when they finally saw him,why he hadn't done any of those things… Atticus, he was realnice…"His hands were under my chin, pulling up the cover, tucking itaround me. ...
　　"Most people are, Scout, when you finally see them."He turned out the light and went into Jem's room. He would bethere all night, and he would be there when Jem waked up in themorning. ...
　　THE END ...