I love this but I think you'll be surprised at your success rate. Everyone is struggling with this, not just you. Right on the heels of covid we were debating whether to have a NYE party or just go to a friend's house for a low key thing. We were paralyzed a bit feeling like, why we weren't invited to other parties ourselves? Won't everyone already be busy doing other stuff? In the end my wife took the leap and invited a ton of neighbors and friends. Guess what?? Almost everyone showed up! Which means all those people were going to be sitting at home feeling bad and wondering the same thing. You just need to believe and get over it, people want to hang out. We've all just gotten out of the habit.
我很喜欢这个，但我想你会对自己的成功率感到惊讶。每个人都在为此挣扎，不只是你 。 就在新冠疫情爆发后，我们正在讨论是要办个跨年派对，还是去朋友家轻松聚会。我们有点呆了，心想为什么我们自己没被邀请参加其他派对？难道大家不都已经忙着做别的事了吗？最后我妻子鼓起勇气，邀请了很多邻居和朋友。猜猜看？几乎所有人都来了！这意味着那些人都会坐在家里，感到难过，心里也在想同样的问题。你只需要相信并释怀，人们就是想一起玩。我们都已经不再习惯了。
	
In my experience, the problem is not a low success rate, but the burnout from being the only person that invites people to do things. At a certain point you want to see some reciprocation to create community. It can definitely happen, but a lot of folks still fall back on the habits. You have to invite and then also start asking people who's gonna host the next one and get them on the hook, and then not burnout from being a constant organizer :)
根据我的经验，问题不在于成功率低，而是因为我是唯一一个主动邀请别人参与活动的人而感到倦怠。在某个阶段，你希望看到一些回报，以建立社区。这种情况确实会发生，但很多人还是会回到习惯上。你得邀请他们，然后开始问下次谁来主持，让他们参与，这样才能避免因为一直当组织者而精疲力竭:)


It’s easy to find reasons to talk yourself out of action. Maybe you’ll get burned out, maybe you won’t. But if you never try you’ll never know. And you’ll definitely miss out on something special
很容易找到理由让自己放弃行动。也许你会感到精疲力竭，也许不会。但如果你从不尝试，你永远不会知道。而且你肯定会错过一些特别的东西


I've been trying to do this. One thing I've observed is trying to arrange people to play board games is quite difficult because you can't predict how many people will show up. People get sick, misread the times, etc. And a lot of games are very sensitive to player count, so having 2 people too few or too many has the ability to make the game somewhat unplayable or risk people sitting out watching.
我一直在尝试这样做。我观察到的一点是，安排人们玩桌游相当困难，因为你无法预测会有多少人来。人们会生病，误读时间等等。而且很多游戏对玩家数量非常敏感，所以两个人过少或太多，都可能让游戏变得难以玩，或者有人坐在那里看。
Easier to just host a party or meetup where you can over invite and if some people don't show up it's no issue.
更简单的做法是举办一个派对或聚会，可以超额邀请，如果有人没来也没关系。

reply

	
neilk 46 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

A friend of mine has this problem with their D&D campaigns. He makes huge efforts and there’s always one or two people who flake or don’t have the same commitment level. He’s gotten quite angry and sad about it.
我有个朋友在他们的龙与地下城战役中遇到了这个问题。他付出了很多努力，但总有一两个人放鸽子或者投入度不一样。他因此变得非常生气和难过。
He is trying something different now, to make a hybrid campaign where there’s a lot of one-shots in a broader story arc. It’s structured like missions in an ongoing struggle.
他现在尝试不同的东西，做一个混合战役，包含大量单次剧情和更广泛的故事线。它的结构就像是持续奋斗中的任务。

Maybe if you want to do board games, we need more games that scale up and down easily. I’m not a board game person, IDK.
也许如果你想做桌游，我们需要更多能轻松放大缩减的游戏。我不是桌游爱好者，不知道。

reply

	
jszymborski 20 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Our D&D group meets once to twice a month and is about seven or eight people. That's large enough that at most two of us can not show up and we're still enough to play and enjoy ourselves. The DM writes session recaps and posts them the day before the next session. The overhead here is minimized by his taking notes during the session. This has kept our group going for something like three or four years now!
我们的 D&D 小组每月聚会一到两次，大约有七八个人。这人数足够大，最多两个人不能来，但我们仍然足够玩耍和享受。DM 会写好游戏回顾，并在下一场游戏的前一天发布。他通过在会话中做笔记，最大限度地减少了开销。这让我们的团队坚持了大约三四年！
The one thing about D&D is that I know almost everyone there exclusively through the campaign, and 90% of my interactions with them have been in character, which means I actually know very little about their personal lives. We're getting better with this with non-D&D hangs though.
关于龙与地下城，我几乎通过战役认识了那里的每个人，90%的互动都是以角色身份进行的，这意味着我对他们的私生活了解很少。不过我们在非龙与地下城的悬挂上正在做得更好。

jimnotgym 51 minutes ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Could you be more flexible about what game you are playing depending on how many show up?
你能根据出现人数灵活选择玩什么游戏吗？
reply

	
SchemaLoad 0 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

It is possible I would assume. I just don't have that many games or enough table space to be super flexible. I'm thinking board games work easiest when the people are already in the same space and need something to do, rather than trying to arrange them to come just for the game.
我猜是有可能的。我游戏不多，桌子空间也不够，没法灵活应付。我觉得桌游在大家已经在同一个空间里需要事情做的时候最容易，而不是试图让他们来玩游戏。

	
jounker 32 minutes ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

This is the way. You have to have some amount of flexibility in your plans.
这才是正确的方式。你必须在计划中保持一定的灵活性。
reply

	
nicbou 20 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Yes, but it's frustrating that it's on the organizer to give everyone both something fun to do and the flexibility to flake. It feels like such thankless work to work so hard and get so little commitment back.
是的，但很让人沮丧的是，组织者要给每个人既有有趣的活动，又要有灵活性去放鸽子。付出这么多努力却几乎得不到承诺，感觉像是得不到感谢的工作。
reply

	
gulugawa 33 minutes ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

As someone who has tried to host events for specific board games, I completely agree. Most games I play are best with 3 to 4, and I will flat out refuse to play them with more than 5.
作为一个尝试过为特定桌游举办活动的人，我完全同意。我玩的大多数游戏3到4人都是最好的，我坚决拒绝超过5人玩。
Now, I host meetups which typically get 8-15 people and multiple games, so an unpredictable player count is not an issue.
现在我举办的聚会通常有8-15人，多场游戏，所以玩家数量不稳定不是问题。

reply

	
mynameisash 34 minutes ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> You have to be the one who creates things to do.
> 你必须是那个创造事情的人。
> You have to do it on a regular cadence.
> 你必须保持规律的节奏。

I've posted about this before, but my wife and I sort of accidentally started a trivia team that's been going strong for like four years. Nearly every single week for four years, we get together with some subset of about 15 people. Most the regulars are there most days.
我以前发过类似的帖子，但我和妻子无意中组建了一个知识竞赛队，已经持续了大约四年。几乎每周，我们都会和大约15个人聚在一起。大多数常客几乎每天都在。

I also started cold plunging and have been doing it with the same regularity as trivia -- nearly every single week. It's a much smaller group, but it is absolutely part of our routine. Rain or shine.
我还开始冷水浴，几乎每周都像做冷水一样频繁。虽然人数少得多，但这绝对是我们日常的一部分。无论晴雨。

Both these things have given several of us some really great friend time that makes that loneliness fade away.
这两件事让我们中有几个人拥有了非常棒的朋友时光，让孤独感逐渐消散。

reply

	
publicdebates 43 minutes ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Sure, but this only works as advice for people who you can talk to, such as me. I'm not trying to solve my loneliness, my own personal goal is to find ways to reach out to people who sit alone all day, and are dying from loneliness, and the only way to reach them is to catch them as they walk on the way to the grocery store, and hold up a sign that they can read. The question in my mind is, what next? So far, I've only been doing surveys[1], but I'm looking for the next step.
当然，但这只对你可以倾诉的人，比如我，才有建议。我并不是想解决孤独，我个人的目标是找到方法去接触那些整天独自坐着、因孤独而濒临死亡的人，而唯一能接触到他们的方式，就是在他们去超市的路上抓住他们，举起一个他们能看懂的牌子。我心里的问题是，接下来会怎样？到目前为止，我只做了调查[1]，但我正在寻找下一步。
Piggybacking off your suggestion, I like the idea of holding up a sign advertising a free activity that anyone can join, located in a very public space, with zero committment, so they can both show up and walk away at the drop of a hat. Whether it's an ad hoc organized chess tournament, or D&D game, or "one word story" or literally anything. That will have to wait until nicer weather, though, to avoid having to rent a place.
顺着你的建议，我喜欢举一个标牌，宣传一个任何人都可以参加的免费活动，地点在非常公共的空间，无需任何承诺，这样两人都能随时来参加，随时离开。无论是临时组织的国际象棋比赛、龙与地下城游戏，还是“单字故事”，或者任何形式。不过这得等天气好些才能避免租房。

[1] https://chicagosignguy.com

reply

	
hadlock 41 minutes ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Not only do you need to create the things to do, but you need to pick up the phone and CALL them (on the telephone! not voicemail, not whatsapp/facetime) and have a conversation with them. Sometime in 2006-2008 we started sending people online invites to parties and the habit of calling people died out.
你不仅需要创造要做的事情，还要拿起电话给他们（打电话！不是语音信箱，不是 WhatsApp 或 FaceTime），和他们聊聊。大约在 2006-2008 年间，我们开始给人们发送在线派对邀请，打电话给别人的习惯也消失了。
If you call 12 people, on the telephone, and invite them for a dinner party next weekend, and 12 people say yes, I give 90% odds that 12 people show up to your party
如果你打电话给12个人，邀请他们下周末参加晚宴，12个人答应了，我给90%的概率会有12个人来参加你的派对

reply

	
publicdebates 39 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

I see young people facetiming each other all the time, maybe a little too much. It definitely fills the same role as audio calls used to. But I just text. I remember when texting started to become a thing, and I was very much looking forward to the absolute convenience of being able to read and respond whatever I had time, and not have to deal with a phone call. I wonder if that was common in my generation (millenials), and I wonder if we call/facetime significantly less and text more than other generations.
我经常看到年轻人视频通话，甚至有点过头了。它确实承担了和音频通话相同的角色。但我只是发短信。我记得短信刚开始流行的时候，我非常期待能随时阅读和回复任何有时间的内容，不用打电话。我想知道这在我们这一代（千禧一代）是否普遍，我也想知道我们是否比其他世代更少打电话/视频通话，发短信也更多。
reply

	
hadlock 21 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Texting is for sure more convenient but you lose the "watercooler" effect, you're not going to text them "how's your mom doing?" when inviting them over for D&D via text
发短信确实更方便，但你会失去“水冷器”的感觉，邀请他们来玩 D&D 时，你不会发短信问“妈怎么样？”
reply

	
publicdebates 6 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I'm also in this group, so I have a few theories as to what causes it and how to fix it.
我也在这个群里，所以我有一些关于原因和解决方法的理论。
For one thing, I was severely traumatized as a kid, which delayed a lot of my social skills. I'm catching up but not all the way there yet. When my social battery is full, I can do pretty well, but if I'm even a little down, it's basically impossible to act normally.
首先，我小时候受到了严重的创伤，这耽误了我很多社交技能的发展。我正在赶上，但还没完全赶上。当我的社交电池充满时，我还能表现得不错，但只要我稍微情绪低落，基本上就无法正常行事。

I also had it hammered into me as a kid that nobody wants me around, nobody could ever love me, I'm a failure, a burden, a creep, a weirdo, and nothing but a bothersome nuisance that nobody would ever want to spend 30 seconds alone with. I'm trying to reject these thoughts, but it's difficult when you have nobody to talk to. It's like pulling yourself up by your bootstraps. I wonder how many people have the same issue. I've made a few friends in person, but I rarely get to see them.
小时候我也被灌输没人想要我，没人能爱我，我是失败者，是个负担，是个怪胎，只是个让人烦恼的麻烦，没人愿意和我单独相处30秒。我正试图拒绝这些想法，但当你没有人可以倾诉时，真的很难。这就像靠自己努力爬起来。我想知道有多少人遇到同样的问题。我结交了一些朋友，但很少有机会见面。

Well I've started doing public surveys in my nearby big city, and documenting the results. I just hold out a posterboard that says "how alone do you feel"[1] or "have you ever been in love" etc, and hold out a marker, and people come up and take the survey. At first I did this out of sheer loneliness and boredom. But I have done it for enough months that some people have come up to me and told me that I've helped them, or that they look forward to my signs.
我已经开始在附近的大城市做公开调查，并记录结果。我只要拿出一张写着“你有多孤独”或“你曾经恋爱过”等的海报板，拿出一个标记，人们就会上前参加调查。起初我是因为孤独和无聊才这么做的。但我已经坚持了好几个月，有些人会走过来告诉我我帮了他们，或者他们期待我的信号。

I'm trying to reach those people who feel the way I feel have no way of connecting with anyone, or at least feel that they don't. Do you have any new ideas of how to achieve this?
我想接触那些和我有同样感受的人，他们根本无法与任何人建立联系，或者至少觉得自己没有。你有没有什么新的想法来实现这个目标？

[1] https://chicagosignguy.com/blog/how-alone-do-you-feel.html

reply

	
soulofmischief 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

Hey, I love you.  嘿，我爱你。
Since I was a small child, my grandfather used to beat me savagely and shake me and pin me to the ground, screaming that the devil was inside of me and that I would never be capable of loving or being loved. This was literally beaten into me. He'd beat me with the buckle end of the belt, like a whip, hitting my face, arms, whatever he could. He'd keep beating me until I couldn't cry anymore, telling me that men are not supposed to cry, and that it was his responsibility to teach me not to cry. I flashback at least once a day to it.
从我还是个小孩开始，我的祖父就常常残忍地殴打我，摇晃我，把我按倒在地，尖叫着说魔鬼在我体内，我永远无法去爱或被爱。这句话是被反复强调的。他用皮带扣头像鞭子一样打我，打我的脸、手臂，能打的地方。他会不停地打我，直到我哭不出来，告诉我男人不该哭，教我不哭是他的责任。我每天至少回忆一次。

But, he was wrong. I love a lot. So much that sometimes it's unbearable. I cry all the time. Sometimes out of pure love for someone. And there are people who I think love me. Of course the doubt is permanently sewn in. But my heart goes out to you, seriously. I love you just for existing and being yourself, and I hope you're okay. We're not alone. Email's in my bio if you ever want to talk.
但他错了。我爱很多。有时候甚至让人难以忍受。我一直在哭。有时是出于对某人的纯粹爱。而且我觉得有人爱我。当然，这种怀疑已经深深烙印在心里。但我真的很同情你，真的。我爱你，仅仅因为你存在和做自己，我希望你没事。我们并不孤单。如果你想聊聊，我的简介里有邮箱。

reply

	
airstrike 52 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

I just want to say thanks for sharing your burden and how you were able to overcome it so others can be inspired.
我只想说谢谢你分享你的负担，以及你是如何克服的，让更多人能得到启发。
I feel like nowadays people are really encouraged to never display any vulnerability. It goes totally against the hype and hustle culture of the attention economy. To do that so candidly takes a lot of courage and confidence, and that's really impressive.
我觉得现在人们真的被鼓励永远不要表现出任何脆弱。这完全违背了关注经济的炒作和拼命文化。能如此坦率地做到这一点，需要很大的勇气和自信，这真的很令人印象深刻。

I'm sorry that happened to you and I'm glad you're doing well. And if that doubt ever seeps into your thoughts, remember they were full of shit and you're absolutely capable of loving and being loved.
很抱歉你经历了这些，也很高兴你一切安好。如果这种怀疑渗透进你的思绪，记住那些都是胡说八道，你完全有能力去爱和被爱。

reply

	
publicdebates 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I appreciate the sentiment, but knowing that it's entirely coming from you and your experiences, and nothing to do with me and my own personality except for the one thing we have somewhat in common, means that your comment is to me merely a representation of you and what you stand for. Which is great and beautiful, but it doesn't cross the bridge of being a meaningful comment on my end.
我理解你的心意，但知道这完全来自你和你的经历，除了我们有一点共同点外，和我本人无关，这意味着你的评论对我来说只是你和你所代表的理念的体现。这很好也很美好，但对我来说，这并不意味着能成为有意义的评论。
That's actually the exact problem I'm facing, so it's incredibly relevant.
这正是我遇到的问题，所以非常相关。

A year ago, I was talking to the local Catholic priest (I was donating some religious statues that I had effectively inherited), and it came up in conversation that I was going through a rough time. He went in for a hug, and it felt so absolutely empty and disingenuous. I accepted it merely to avoid a scene, but it was absolutely not welcome or meaningful.
一年前，我和当地的天主教神父聊天（我捐赠了一些我实际上继承了的宗教雕像），谈话中提到我正经历一段艰难的时期。他伸手去拥抱，但感觉那拥抱完全空洞且虚伪。我只是为了避免闹事而接受了，但这绝对不受欢迎，也没有意义。

When I'm out in the city, I want to reach out to those people who put that they feel "100%" alone just like I do. I wrote in the article some of my thoughts and feelings on this, and some things I tried and didn't try.
当我在城市里时，我想联系那些和我一样感到“百分之百孤独”的人。我在文章中写了一些我对此的想法和感受，以及我尝试过和没尝试过的一些事情。

But ultimately, that's the gap I want to bridge now. We have a thing in common. How do we go from there? (Not you and me, but me and a stranger who has the same problem as me that they want to solve.) What do I say next? What's the next thing we can do in that interaction, or maybe a later one if I ever see them again? This is my question to myself, what I'm wondering in this whole post.
但归根结底，这正是我现在想要弥合的鸿沟。我们有共同点。接下来我们该怎么做？（不是你和我，而是我和一个和我有同样问题、想解决的陌生人。）接下来我该说什么？接下来我们能做什么，或者如果我再见到他们，可能会有后续的互动？这是我对自己的疑问，也是我在整篇帖子里想问的。

reply

	
soulofmischief 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

> knowing that it's entirely coming from you and your experiences, and nothing to do with me and my own personality
>知道这完全来自你和你的经历，和我本人的性格无关
That's not the point of empathy and not the point of my outreach. I don't need to know you precisely or be within a certain proximity in order to empathize with you.
这不是同理心的意义，也不是我外展的重点。我不需要完全了解你，也不需要在一定距离内才能同情你。

> A year ago, I was talking to the local Catholic priest (I was donating some religious statues that I had effectively inherited), and it came up in conversation that I was going through a rough time. He went in for a hug, and it felt so absolutely empty and disingenuous.
> 一年前，我和当地的天主教神父聊天（我捐赠了一些我实际上继承的宗教雕像），谈话中提到我正经历一段艰难时期。他伸手去拥抱，但感觉那拥抱完全空洞且虚伪。

For what it's worth, the man who did these things to me was a Catholic deacon, and the hypocrisy is blood-boiling. He would give very pleasant-sounding homilies about love, acceptance, patience and understanding, and then come home and savagely beat and torture me through physically painful punishments and extended periods of isolation. I would not go to a Catholic leader if you are looking for surefire genuinity. The institution attracts performative, power-seeking individuals.
说实话，对我做这些事的人是一位天主教执事，这种虚伪令人血脉沸腾。他会讲一些听起来很愉快的讲道，讲爱、接纳、耐心和理解，然后回家后残忍地殴打和折磨我，施以身体的痛苦和长时间的隔离。如果你在寻找可靠的真诚，我不建议去找天主教领袖。该机构吸引表演性强、追求权力的人士。

> What do I say next? What's the next thing we can do in that interaction, or maybe a later one if I ever see them again?
> 接下来我该说什么？接下来我们能做什么，或者如果我再见到他们，可能会有后续的互动？

It's a combination of bridging and bonding. Meeting individuals, like myself or a stranger on the street, and learning that you have something in common which provides substrate for conversation and communication through a shared experience, is bridging. Developing those relationships by building around that core is bonding.
这是一种桥梁连接和亲近的结合。遇见像我自己或街上的陌生人这样的人，并了解到你们有共同点，这为对话和沟通提供了基础，通过共同经历，这是一种桥梁。围绕核心构建关系，这就是建立联系。

We typically bond contextually: We both go to the same school or office and see each other daily, or we run into each other at the store each week, etc. I once ended up becoming best friends and living with someone who was my cashier at Trader Joes.
我们通常是根据情境建立联系：我们都在同一所学校或办公室，每天都见面，或者每周在商店碰面，等等。我曾经成为最好的朋友，还和一个在 Trader Joes 做收银员的人同住。

Instead of telling me our personalities and experiences have nothing to do with each other, we could discuss our experiences, find commonalities that are more than surface-level, and bond over those. I've met great people on this website. I've met some of them in person. Friends are all over the place, hiding in plain sight.
与其告诉我我们的性格和经历毫无关联，不如讨论彼此的经历，找到超越表面的共性，并因此建立联系。我在这个网站上遇到了很多很棒的人。我见过其中一些人。朋友们到处都是，藏在明处。

reply

	
seneca 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

> it's entirely coming from you and your experiences, and nothing to do with me and my own personality except for the one thing we have somewhat in common, means that your comment is to me merely a representation of you and what you stand for. Which is great and beautiful, but it doesn't cross the bridge of being a meaningful comment on my end.
>这完全来自你和你的经历，除了我们有一点共同点外，和我个人无关，这意味着你的评论对我来说只是你和你所代表的理念的体现。这很好也很美好，但对我来说，这并不意味着能成为有意义的评论。
Man, well said. People who "over engage" are doing it out of a sense of kindness, but you're right that it feels hollow and is really just about them.
说得好。那些“过度参与”的人是出于善意，但你说得对，这感觉空洞，实际上只是为了他们自己。

I think the solution to this is basically what you're doing. Build small connections via whatever engagement mechanism you can and let them organically grow into meaningful ones. Jumping from zero to pretending you have a meaningful connection is exactly why those gestures feel hollow. There is no shortcut, it takes time.
我觉得解决办法基本上就是你现在做的。通过各种互动方式建立小小的联系，让它们自然成长为有意义的关系。从零开始假装你们有有意义的联系，正是那些举动显得空洞的原因。没有捷径，需要时间。

Sounds like you're making those initial connections with your signs, which I think is great.
听起来你已经和你的星座建立了最初的联系，我觉得这很好。

reply

	
sailfast 12 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Not a doctor or anything, but what happens if you check your assumptions about someone's actions being hollow or making it about them and consider that they actually want to support you and show you love or empathy as a possibility? Removing some of our own defensive layers might be a first step - though I understand how difficult that can be since we've been burned so many times and they layers are there for a reason!
我不是医生，但如果你反复审视自己对某人的行为空洞或把事情变成他们自己，并考虑他们其实是想支持你，并以爱或同理心的方式表达你的可能性，会发生什么？脱掉我们自己的防护层可能是第一步——虽然我理解这有多难，因为我们已经被伤害过很多次，这些层是有原因的！
reply

	
soulofmischief 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I can assure you that there was nothing performative or hollow about my comment. OP said something that resonated with me, and so I shared my story in an attempt to bridge and find commonalities.
我可以向你保证，我的评论绝非表演或空洞。楼主说了一句让我有共鸣的话，所以我分享了我的故事，试图搭建桥梁，寻找共鸣。
It's possible you are just projecting biases onto my comment. I'm not sure what "over-engaging" is, but you're free to ignore my comment if you feel that it was too personal or too long. I don't however, understand the contempt, or insinuations that I am attempting to take some kind of shortcut with personal connection.
你可能只是把偏见投射到我的评论上。我不太确定“过度投入”是什么意思，但如果你觉得我的评论太私密或太长，可以选择忽略。然而，我不理解他们对我的轻蔑，或者暗示我在个人关系上走捷径。

You can connect quickly with strangers if both parties are receptive. And as I just mentioned to OP, I have made life-long friends from this site, who I have met multiple times in person. I reach out to people often, and people often reach out to me, over email.
如果双方都能接受，你可以很快与陌生人建立联系。正如我刚才对楼主提到的，我在这个网站上结交了许多终生朋友，并且多次见面。我经常联系别人，别人也经常通过邮件联系我。

That is why I shared my story and mentioned to OP that my inbox was open: to develop or at least explore a possible connection. This is as intentional as it gets with making connections, but your priors are causing you to misunderstand my intentions and paint my comment in an insultingly negative light.
这就是为什么我分享了我的故事，并告诉楼主我的收件箱是开放的：想发展或至少探索可能的联系。这是刻意建立联系的极致，但你的前科让你误解了我的意图，把我的评论描绘成侮辱性的负面形象。

reply

	
uxcolumbo 7 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

I read your story you shared here. Fkn hell is all I can say. That you survived this as a kid is kind of a miracle.
我读了你在这里分享的故事。我只能说，真是地狱。你小时候能活下来，简直是个奇迹。
I admire your strength. How as a kid did you escape the brainwashing?
我佩服你的坚强。你小时候是怎么逃脱洗脑的？

Regarding the replies above, they might be referring to how you can say “I love you” even though you don’t really know them. Just a guess.
关于上面的回复，他们可能指的是你能说“我爱你”，即使你并不真正了解他们。只是猜测。

I’m glad you made it out and that you’re now trying to help others.
我很高兴你能走出来，并且现在开始努力帮助别人。

reply

	
srean 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I am always in awe when people are able to manage such an unsavoury baggage. That's some tough going.
每当有人能管理如此令人不快的包袱时，我总是感到敬佩。这可真是艰难。
reply

	
o-o- 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I... what did I just read?!
我。。。我刚刚读了什么？！
How. On. Earth. did you turn yourself around with those pre-conditions??
怎么会。开。地球。你是不是带着那些先决条件改变了自己？

reply

	
soulofmischief 50 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Predominantly, rejecting all priors and aggressively maintaining an open mind, reading a lot as a child, intentionally deferring the formation of concrete opinions about things until I was on my own and able to guide my own hand.
主要是拒绝所有先入为主的观点，积极保持开放的心态，小时候大量阅读，故意推迟形成具体观点，直到我自己能够引导自己。
This was necessary because I was raised by two major conservatives, in rural, conservative areas, surrounded by racists and sexists, my computer use and reading materials were surveilled and restricted, I was only allowed to listen to approved Christian music, I couldn't really even choose my own clothes, shoes or hairstyles. My belongings were regularly searched and my school administrators and teachers were always looped into the surveillance circle, alerting my grandparents and school administrators and punishing me if I so much as drew a stick figure holding nunchaku or dared journal about my experiences.
这是必要的，因为我是在两个主要保守派家庭中长大的，生活在农村保守地区，周围充斥着种族主义者和性别歧视者，我的电脑使用和阅读材料被监控和限制，我只能听经批准的基督教音乐，甚至不能自己选择衣服、鞋子或发型。我的物品经常被搜查，学校的管理人员和老师总是被纳入监控圈，通知祖父母和学校管理层，只要我画了拿双节棍的简笔人或敢写经历的日记，就会被惩罚。

There was a very aggressive and invasive attempt to brainwash me and the only thing I could think to do was wait until I was on my own, and learn everything from scratch. This began at 16, when I became homeless after refusing to enter Confirmation as a Catholic (I am atheist). My grandparents kicked me out and stole/broke most of my things. My mom was too busy doing drugs and not working to support me.
他们非常激进且侵入性地试图洗脑我，我唯一能想到的就是等到自己独立时，从零开始学习一切。这始于16岁，当时我因拒绝以天主教徒身份参加坚振礼而无家可归（我是无神论者）。祖父母把我赶出去，还偷走或弄坏了我大部分东西。我妈妈忙着吸毒，没时间养我。

I read a lot of philosophy and studied various topics. This has helped immensely with forming a foundation for my morality, sense of ethics and motivation. I still battle with a lot of internal demons stemming from my childhood and disorders including ADHD, and I can get extremely depressed, and I've burned out a couple times, but I just devote myself to my work and studies and get by. My brother, on the other hand, turned into a domestic abuser, which tracks considering his large role in the violence I experienced growing up.
我读了很多哲学，也研究了各种主题。这极大地帮助我建立了道德观、伦理感和动力的基础。我仍然与源自童年和包括多动症在内的许多内心恶魔作斗争，我会极度抑郁，也曾几次精疲力竭，但我专注于工作和学习，勉强应付过去。而我哥哥则变成了家庭暴力者，这也符合他在我成长过程中经历的暴力中的重要角色。

It's clear to me that intentionality was the defining factor in escaping most of the traumatic cycles present in my family tree, including drug addiction, violence and crime (as an example, my mom is currently in prison for abusing a mentally-handicapped quadriplegic)
我很清楚，有意图是逃离家族树中大多数创伤循环的关键因素，包括毒瘾、暴力和犯罪（举例来说，我妈妈目前因虐待一名智障四肢瘫痪者而入狱）

reply

	
yesfitz 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

I've posted this thought a few times in different ways, but in my experience, community is found and then built.
我以不同方式发过几次这个想法，但以我的经验来看，社区是先被发现然后建立的。
Regularly sharing space with others is the way to start finding community. I think your surveying is an example of that. The next step is when the interactions begin taking place outside of the regular time/place, as evidenced by your epilogue.
经常与他人共享空间是开始找到归属感的方式。我觉得你的测量就是一个例子。下一步是互动开始发生在常规时间/地点之外，正如你的尾声所示。

What I haven't posted before is anything about how to successfully create those connections. Maybe we get lucky and someone will share our taste in music or movies or what have you, and the connection will be almost effortless. But to increase the rate of connection, I've found that learning to ask good questions is key.
我之前没发过关于如何成功建立这些联系的内容。也许我们很幸运，有人会和我们有相同的音乐品味、电影之类的，这种联系几乎会变得轻松。但要提高连接速度，我发现学会提出好问题是关键。

We can learn a lot from popular interviewers like Terry Gross, Johnny Carson, or James Lipton. But to provide some direct tips: Lead with open-ended questions (i.e. not "yes or no"). Ask follow-up questions. Share a little bit while asking questions (e.g. "I'm not really into X music, more Y. Where would I start if I wanted to listen to X?")
我们可以从特里·格罗斯、约翰尼·卡森或詹姆斯·利普顿等知名采访者那里学到很多。但给你一些直接建议：用开放式问题开场（即不是“是或不是”）。提出后续问题。在提问时分享一些内容（例如：“我其实不太喜欢 X 音乐，更喜欢 Y。如果我想听 X，我该从哪里开始？“）

Of course, sometimes friendships just aren't meant to be. It's tough, and can feel like a waste of time to have made the connection, but I've been surprised multiple times when a conversation that seemed like a slog of a one-off led to fruitful friendships later.
当然，有时候友谊就是注定不会发生。这很难，有时感觉像是在浪费时间，但我多次惊讶于一场看似漫长的一次性对话，后来却发展成了富有成效的友谊。

reply

	
vel0city 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

That's one thing I've found about trying to meet new people. Try and find something they want to talk about, and the floodgates will often open.
这是我发现认识新朋友的一个方法。试着找他们想聊的话题，洪水闸门往往会打开。
reply

	
blopker 1 hour ago | parent | prev | next [–]

After my dad died from cancer in 2018, I saw first hand the resulting loneliness and the lack of resources available. Being an engineer, I figured I might as well try to solve it, at least for some people. In 2020, I started a non-profit for small support groups[0]. We're small, and I've been mostly funding it myself, but it's growing. The main issue is we don't have the resources to cover every topic, so it's not for everyone (yet). Happy to chat if you have feedback, email is in my profile.
2018年父亲因癌症去世后，我亲眼见证了随之而来的孤独和资源的匮乏。作为工程师，我觉得至少对某些人来说，我也应该试着解决这个问题。2020年，我创办了一个小型支持小组的非营利组织[0]。我们规模不大，我大部分资金都是自己出的，但它正在增长。主要问题是我们没有资源涵盖所有主题，所以还不适合所有人（至少目前）。如果你有反馈，我很乐意聊聊，邮箱在我的个人资料里。
Everything we do is open source too[1].
我们所做的一切都是开源的[1]。

[0]: https://www.totem.org/ [1]: https://github.com/totem-technologies/totem-server
[0]：https://www.totem.org/ [1]：https://github.com/totem-technologies/totem-server

reply

	
srean 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Traumatic childhood almost always messes with how one attaches with people. A small exceptional fraction somehow manage to remain unaffected.
创伤性的童年几乎总是会影响一个人与人的依附方式。极少数例外的人竟然能保持不被影响。
When attachment styles get warped, behaviors that were a self protective behavior in childhood, become self-defeating behaviors in adult life. The person is quite oblivious to all this because those behaviors and fragile modes of attachment feel perfectly normal -- it is like growing up in a different g (acceleration due to gravity).
当依恋风格扭曲时，童年时的自我保护行为，到了成年后就会变成自我挫败的行为。这个人对这些完全无知，因为这些行为和脆弱的依恋模式感觉完全正常——就像在另一个重力加速度（g）中长大。

It feels like - I am right, it's the others who are wrong, unfair, greedy, needy, flakey, stupid.
感觉就像——我是对的，错的是别人，不公平，贪婪，需要帮助，摇摆不定，愚蠢。

For me this book [0] was very helpful for understanding what's going on in and around me
对我来说，这本书[0]对理解我身边发生的事情非常有帮助

[0] https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9547888-attached

reply

	
jasondigitized 28 minutes ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Wondering if your results are skewed towards people who are outside and therefore have a higher probability of not being lonely by virtue of them being amongst people.
想知道你的结果是否偏向那些在户外的人，因此他们更有可能因为身处人群中而不感到孤独。
reply

	
titanomachy 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

I like this poster thing. Anything that gives people a little connection to those around them.
我喜欢这个海报的做法。任何能让人与周围人建立联系的事物。
I sometimes sit on my front step and play guitar. 9/10 people ignore me but usually I'll have one or two nice conversations with a neighbor, and have made a couple friends this way. It helps that I live in a dense walkable place with lots of people who are similar to me.
我有时会坐在门前台阶上弹吉他。九成的人都忽视我，但我通常会和邻居聊一两次愉快的话题，也因此交了几个朋友。我住在一个密集且可步行的地方，有很多和我相似的人，这也帮了我不少忙。

reply

	
vharuck 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I've done sidewalk art with my kid. Between Spring and Fall last year, I'd make a new drawing every time it rained. Rarely was there a day without chalk on my sidewalk.
我和孩子一起做过人行道艺术。去年春天到秋天，每次下雨我都会画一幅新画。几乎每天都有人行道上没有粉笔。
I did it to play with my kid (and learn a little Japanese by writing the title in kanji), but another outcome was talking to neighbors. I keep to myself and have been told I'm difficult to approach, but people often come up and compliment the drawings. One lady said that, when walking with her granddaughter, she makes sure to see what's new on my sidewalk. It's been a very "low risk" way to put myself out there. I draw without anyone looking, and chatty people come to me while I'm in the yard.
我写这本书是为了和孩子玩（还通过写汉字写标题学点日语），但另一个结果是和邻居们聊天。我平时很低调，有人说我很难接近，但人们经常会过来夸奖我的画作。有位女士说，和孙女一起走路时，她会注意我家人行道上有什么新鲜事。这是一种非常“低风险”的自我展示方式。我画画时没人注意，有人在院子里聊天时会来找我。

reply

	
iambateman 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Thanks for sharing.  谢谢分享。
Your website made me smile…it is a fun one for sure.
你的网站让我微笑......这确实是个有趣的游戏。

reply

	
publicdebates 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

Thanks. I've been considering potentially starting a non-profit that accepts donations, to be able to afford to do this more often.
谢谢。我一直在考虑可能成立一个接受捐款的非营利组织，这样能更频繁地做这件事。
reply

	
sebg 5 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Helping people like you are seems like an amazing start. Maybe try to get a pyramid structure going where you teach people to help other people and then they teach people and then it’s a movement? But at all times a low level of effort so there is no pressure other than just holding up a sign or a marker.
帮助像你这样的人似乎是一个很棒的开始。也许可以尝试建立一个金字塔结构，教别人帮助别人，然后他们教别人，然后形成一场运动？但始终保持低强度的努力，所以除了举个牌子或标记外，没有其他压力。
I’ve found the hardest thing is breaking the ice and the sign / marker normalises a low stakes interaction where one participant can walk away at any time
我发现最难的是打破僵局，而标志/标记让低风险的互动变得正常化，其中一方随时可以离开

reply

	
publicdebates 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

I've thought a lot about this since you wrote it. I do wonder if this could become a pyramid activity.
自从你写完这篇文章后，我就一直在思考这个问题。我确实想知道这是否能成为一种金字塔式的活动。
One problem is that it has to be people who are relatively comfortable talking to strangers, which by definition excludes the main people I'm trying to reach.
一个问题是，必须是那些相对能和陌生人交流的人，这从定义上来说排除了我想接触的主要人群。

That said, I wonder if there's a middle ground. Maybe people like myself, who feel unfulfilled, but don't have too much difficulty talking to strangers, could be the ones who hold the signs. And we could help those people get to the point we're at... it could work.
话虽如此，我想知道是否有中间地带。也许像我这样感到不满足，但与陌生人交流并不困难的人，才是那些持有这些标志的人。我们可以帮助那些人达到我们现在的状态......这可能奏效。

reply

	
gulugawa 27 minutes ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I think teaching people so that they can teach others is a necessity. I've fond that the most effective meetups are the ones where people have a shared sense of ownership, which includes being welcoming to people who are new. One board game group I am a part of ran for 2 years without an official host for this reason.
我认为教人是为了让他们能教别人，是必要的。我一直认为，最有效的聚会是那些大家有共同归属感的聚会，包括对新来者保持欢迎。我参加的一个桌游小组因为这个原因，连续两年没有官方主持人。
reply

	
hombre_fatal 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Spending time in parts of Latin America or western Europe or east Asia and then coming back to the US, you can see a lot of ways in which we've built loneliness into the fabric of US culture.
在拉丁美洲、西欧或东亚的部分地区待过，然后回到美国，你可以看到我们在美国文化中将孤独融入了许多方面。
It goes beyond car culture. It's probably illegal to build a cafe within walking distance of your neighborhood or into the first floor of your apartment complex.
它超越了汽车文化。在你所在社区步行可达的地方或公寓一楼建咖啡馆很可能是违法的。

Americans get an idea of how bad we have it when we go on vacation, but we don't see it as something that can be built at home.
美国人在度假时能体会到我们的困境，但我们并不认为这能在家里建起来。

reply

	
alecco 1 hour ago | parent | next [–]

> Latin America or western Europe or east Asia
> 拉丁美洲、西欧或东亚
I can attest both LatAm and Europe are quickly turning the same way. At least in the bigger cities. Take public transport and 70% are frying their brains with their phones on algorithmic timelines, dumb mobile games, or worse. Women even more. You go to a bar and try to start a conversation and people look at you like you are a creep or a scammer. I've heard this happens to Gen Z, too.
我可以证明，拉美和欧洲的趋势也在迅速转变。至少在大城市是这样。以公共交通为例，70%的人正用手机在算法时间表、愚蠢的手机游戏上疯狂，甚至更糟。女性更是如此。你去酒吧试图搭话，别人看你的眼神就像你是个或骗子。我听说 Z 世代也会遇到这种情况。

reply

	
cm2012 1 hour ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Both latam and western europe report and east Asia report higher loneliness rates than the US or the Nordics. Very consistently.
拉美和西欧以及东亚的孤独率均高于美国或北欧。非常稳定。
reply

	
PlatoIsADisease 1 hour ago | parent | prev | next [–]

As someone who was a libertarian as a child, I assure you the idea of relaxing regulations is quite unpopular.
作为一个小时候是自由意志主义者的人，我可以向你保证，放宽监管的想法非常不受欢迎。
Lots of factors cause this. Obviously established businesses hate competition. There seems to be a tendency for politicians to make more laws as a bandaid rather than remove old(but this isnt universally true). And finally and probably most importantly, people like the status quo. Change is scary.
造成这种情况有很多因素。显然，成熟企业讨厌竞争。政治家似乎倾向于立法更多，作为权宜之计，而不是去掉旧的（但这并非普遍适用）。最后，也许最重要的是，人们喜欢现状。变化令人害怕。

Also I live in the suburbs and we have a coffee shop within 2 minutes walking. I just have a hard time paying $4 for a coffee to meet people when most people are on their laptops anyway.
另外我住在郊区，我们家有一家步行两分钟内的咖啡店。我只是很难花4美元买杯咖啡认识新朋友，毕竟大多数人都在用笔记本电脑。

My friends come from sports clubs, parties, and the parents of my kids via birthday parties.
我的朋友们来自体育俱乐部、派对，还有我孩子的父母通过生日派对来的。

reply

	
jacobgkau 1 hour ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> or into the first floor of your apartment complex.
>或者进入你公寓楼的一楼。
I wouldn't trust a cafe built into an apartment complex. I'd expect it to be low-quality, over-priced food placed specifically to try and make a quick buck off people who don't know any better or who physically can't get somewhere better.
我不会信任建在公寓楼里的咖啡馆。我本以为这些食物质量低、价格过高，专门摆放给那些不懂事或者身体上无法去更好地方的人快速赚钱。

You're right that it goes beyond car culture (and zoning laws are part of car culture), but I think it also goes beyond zoning laws. A lack of a social contract between people (individually) and businesses these days is probably involved, too. All these things are interrelated.
你说得对，这不仅仅是汽车文化（而分区法律是汽车文化的一部分），但我认为它也超越了分区法律。如今，个人与企业之间缺乏社会契约，这很可能也起了作用。这些都是相互关联的。

reply

	
PlatoIsADisease 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

Maybe consider that the overpriced part is fine because you are paying for the time you save.
也许可以考虑价格偏高没关系，因为你是在为节省的时间付费。
There are many ways to look at things
看问题有很多种方式

-t. not an Absurdist, but sometimes I use the tools.
-t. 我不是荒诞主义者，但有时我会用工具。

reply

	
jacobgkau 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

There's a limit to the convenience factor. Fast food used to be cheap because it was faster than real food. Now it's expensive, and less real than it was to start with. A hip no-name cafe owned by a huge conglomerate charging $17 for a microwaved sandwich or something is objectively a bad deal.
便利性是有限度的。快餐以前便宜，是因为它比真正的食物快。现在它变得昂贵，也不如最初那么真实。一家由大型企业集团拥有、收费17美元的无名时髦咖啡馆，微波炉三明治之类的，客观来说是个糟糕的交易。
Ensuring you never have to leave the comfort of your apartment complex is also of questionable relevance to solving loneliness/getting people to meet each other.
确保你永远不必离开舒适的公寓，这对解决孤独感或让人们见面的意义也值得怀疑。

> -t. not an Absurdist, but sometimes I use the tools.
> -t。我不是荒诞主义者，但有时我会用这些工具。

Did you accidentally paste part of a different comment or something?
你是不是不小心粘贴了其他评论的内容？

reply

	
SchemaLoad 55 minutes ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Only if it's a rare novelty. If having a cafe near by is just the norm, it isn't any more expensive.
只有当它是罕见的新奇事物时才会。如果附近有咖啡馆是常态，那也不会更贵。
reply

	
abalashov 56 minutes ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> Americans get an idea of how bad we have it when we go on vacation, but we don't see it as something that can be built at home.
>美国人在度假时会体会到我们的困境，但我们并不认为这是可以在家里实现的。
It's so strange how this works. They go, sometimes repeatedly, to enjoy these rather basic things, but behave as though they're visiting a quaint Disneyland of sorts and as though there could be no lessons they could take away and apply toward a vision of their own community...
这真是太奇怪了。他们有时会反复去享受这些相当基本的东西，但表现得像是在参观一个古朴的迪士尼乐园，仿佛没有什么教训可以带走并应用于他们自己的社区愿景......

reply

	
ecshafer 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

People need to purposefully and intentionally do things. Sitting home on an app, watching TV is easy. There is no fear or rejection, there is no work to get out of the house, there is no risk. But there is also no reward.
人们需要有目的且有意识地做事。坐在家里用应用看电视很简单。没有恐惧或拒绝，没有工作要离开家，没有风险。但也没有回报。
My thoughts on this are you need to have multiple roots into your community. This is something that you go to often and talk to people, become a regular, say hi. Think back to how your parents or grandparents did it: They went to church/temple/synagogue, they went to PTA meetings, they talked to their neighbors, they were in clubs, they went to the same bar.
我认为你需要在社区中有多个根基。这是你经常去、和人聊天、成为常客、打个招呼的活动。回想一下你父母或祖父母是怎么做的：他们去教堂/寺庙/犹太教堂，参加家长教师会会议，和邻居聊天，去俱乐部，去同一家酒吧。

So I think doing things that get you out of the house, consistently the most important part:
所以我认为，做一些能让你走出家门的事情，始终是最重要的部分：

1. People need to make a point to talk to their neighbors, invite them over for dinner or bbqs, make small talk. How towns are constructed now is a hindrance to this (unwalkable towns where all of the houses are big garages in the front and no porches).
1. 人们需要主动和邻居交谈，邀请他们来家里吃饭或烧烤，闲聊。现在城镇的建设方式反而成为障碍（那些无法步行的城镇，所有房子都是前面的大车库，没有门廊）。

2. Join a religious organization. Go to church, but also join the mens/womens group, join a bible studies class. Attend every week.
2. 加入宗教组织。去教堂，但也加入男女小组，参加圣经学习班。每周参加。

3. Join social clubs / ethnic organization. The polish or ukrainian clubs, knights of columbus, elks, freemasons. Go every week.
3. 加入社交俱乐部/民族组织。波兰或乌克兰俱乐部、哥伦布骑士团、麋鹿会、共济会。每周去一次。

4. Join a club / league. Chess club, bowling league, softball league, golf league. Tech meetups, DnD Night etc. But you have to talk with people and try to elevate things to friendships.
4. 加入俱乐部/联赛。国际象棋俱乐部、保龄球联盟、垒球联盟、高尔夫联赛。科技聚会、龙与地下城之夜等。但你必须和别人交流，努力把关系提升到朋友关系。

5. Have lunch, happy hour, etc with coworkers.
5. 和同事一起吃午饭、欢乐时光等。

reply

	
asdfman123 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

I think the trick is getting off social media.
我觉得关键是要离开社交媒体。
When I was a computer nerd in the 2000s, I noticed people used to like to hang around and chat, but I mostly didn't.
当我在2000年代还是个电脑迷时，我注意到人们喜欢闲逛聊天，但我大多数时候不喜欢。

Now, everyone is an internet addict, and I was just ahead of the curve. No one hangs around and chats anymore.
现在，每个人都是网络成瘾者，而我只是走在了潮流的前面。没人再闲逛聊天了。

When you get off social media, real life becomes far more interesting. The problem with addiction is that it's so stimulating that everything else is boring. You have to let your mind reset.
当你离开社交媒体，现实生活变得更加有趣。成瘾的问题在于它太刺激人了，其他一切都变得无聊。你必须让自己的心态重置。

reply

	
munificent 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I agree but if your goal is to socialize more, it's not enough to get off social media. You need to be in a place where enough other people do too.
我同意，但如果你的目标是多社交，光靠退出社交媒体是不够的。你需要在一个足够多的人也能理解的地方。
Think of a city as both a spatial and a temporal grouping of people that are in the same place at the same time. Every hour a person spends at home on social media is an hour that they aren't really in the city and are not available for you to socialize with.
把城市看作是空间上和时间上同时处于同一地点的人群集合体。一个人在家花一小时在社交媒体上，就意味着他们不在城市里，也没空让你社交。

The cumulative hours that people spend staring at their phones are effectively a massive loss of population density. That lost density makes it harder to find people even if you yourself are getting off a screen and looking for them.
人们盯着手机的累计时间实际上是人口密度的巨大损失。这种密度的流失让你即使自己离开屏幕去找人，也更难找到他们。

reply

	
publicdebates 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I thought of this the other day. I was on the train ride back from Chicago, and there was a family of four adults, sitting across from me, all just staring at their phones. I was effectively alone at that point in time. None of them were present. But you explained it in a new way I had not thought of before. They're quite literally not there in that moment, for however long that moment lasts.
我前几天想到了这个。我从芝加哥坐火车回来，对面坐着一个四口之家，大家都盯着手机发呆。那时我实际上是孤身一人。他们都没出现。但你用我以前没想过的新方式解释了。他们实际上在那一刻根本不存在 ，无论那一刻持续多久。
reply

	
munificent 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I took the train from Seattle to Portland last fall. Half of the people in the observation car were on Nintendo Switches the entire time. In the observation car.
去年秋天我从西雅图坐火车到波特兰。观景车里有一半的人全程都在玩任天堂 Switch。在观景车里。
reply

	
netsharc 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I heard the unofficial motto for BlackBerry from friends, something along the lines of "make distant friends be nearby, and nearby friends distant"
我从朋友那里听到过黑莓的非官方座右铭，大意是“让远方的朋友靠近，让附近的朋友远离”。
reply

	
SchemaLoad 53 minutes ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

This problem is not going to be solved by individual action. Sure there is some things you can and should do, but for it to be solved at a population scale it has to involve changing the actual structure of society that caused the problem in the first place.
这个问题无法靠个人行动解决。当然，有些事情你可以且应该做，但要在人口层面上解决这个问题，必须涉及改变最初导致问题的社会结构。
Tackling phone addiction and lack of public spaces is going to be critical.
解决手机成瘾和公共空间不足将至关重要。

reply

	
chasd00 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

just find a hobby that involves other people. any kind of team sport, r/c airplanes, shooting, bird watching, the options are pretty endless. You'll meet other people, make friends, and not be so lonely.
找一个能和别人一起参与的爱好就行了。任何团队运动，遥控飞机、射击、观鸟，选择几乎无穷无尽。你会认识其他人，交朋友，不会那么孤独。
reply

	
dingaling 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

> You'll meet other people, make friends
>你会认识别人，交朋友
'Making friends' doesn't occur by just being in proximity to people.
“交朋友”并不是仅仅靠靠近别人就能实现的。

Quite likely at the end of the night they'll return to their lives and you won't be invited to interact with them again until the next meeting. That's if you're not excluded from existing club cliques - I've gone to many different meetings and come away at the end feeling more alone.
很可能到了晚上结束时，他们会回到自己的生活，而你直到下一次见面时才会被邀请与他们互动。当然，如果你不被现有的俱乐部小圈子排除在外——我参加过很多不同的会议，最后都觉得更孤单。

reply

	
olyjohn 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

You're right, you have to take a risk and go introduce yourself and talk. The thing with joining hobby clubs or groups is that you immediately have something in common to talk about. If you're lucky, some groups will have a person in the group who will see someone sitting alone, and go introduce them and drag them in. But not everybody picks up on that stuff or wants to make the effort on your behalf.
你说得对，你必须冒险去自我介绍并交流。加入兴趣爱好俱乐部或团体的好处是，你们很快就有共同话题可以聊。如果你幸运的话，有些小组里会有人看到一个人单独坐着，然后去介绍并拉进来。但并不是每个人都能理解这些，或者愿意为你付出努力。
And yes, it's normal that people don't just immediately become best friends and want to hang out with one person they just met for an hour at a meeting. Especially if that person doesn't even say hello. Sometimes it happens though! It helps a lot if you just go back a couple of times.
是的，人们不会立刻成为最好的朋友，想和刚认识的人在会议上待一个小时，这很正常。尤其是当那个人连招呼都不打时。不过有时候也会这样！如果你能回去几次，会有很大帮助。

The thing I love about car meets is that I can just go up to someone, ask them about their car, and tell them that I like it. You can do the same with any hobby, just go to meets where people are doing things, and not just showing up with nothing. Bring things to share, and a lot of times that brings people to you. Another thing you can do is ask for help with something. People love to help!
我喜欢汽车聚会的一点是，我可以直接走过去，问问他们的车，告诉他们我喜欢。你也可以对任何爱好做同样的事，去参加有人在做事情的聚会，而不是空手而至。带点东西来分享，很多时候这会吸引别人来找你。你还可以做的另一件事是寻求帮助。大家都很乐意帮忙！

Ham nerds are the same way. Electronics nerds are the same way. Computer geeks do the same thing too. I'm sure every hobby is the same way. Find something you like doing and it makes it a lot easier. But the point is if you don't put in any effort, nothing will happen.
业余爱好者也是这样。电子迷也是这样。电脑极客也会这样做。我相信每个爱好都是这样。找到你喜欢做的事情，会容易很多。但关键是，如果你不付出任何努力，什么都不会发生。

reply

	
drekipus 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I think the real cause of the loneliness epidemic is that the older generation never taught us how to socialise and make friends.
I make an effort to talk to people and now we have "come over to dinner" friendships with people we met at a public park.

reply

	
dmoy 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

> just find a hobby that involves other people... shooting,
Ok that one made me chuckle just from the initial reading of the wording.

I don't disagree though, I do competitive bullseye, and it is definitely a communal thing. Many old guys at the range in particular seem to be there for 99% talking at you, and 1% actual shooting related stuff.

If I'm going to the range for a set of three position, a 120-shot session by myself takes like 2.5 hours including setup and teardown. If there's talkative-old-guy at the range, then I'm there for 4 hours, and I don't even make it through 60 shots lol.

Which is fine for someone like me who is a competitive shooter but not like really trying to be the absolute best, I don't mind spending 60 minutes doing bullseye and 180 minutes chatting about whatever. The actual competitive shooters at the range though, they'll either have someone screen talkative-old-guy for them, or just otherwise make it clear that they are Serious and not to be bothered.

reply

	
munificent 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

"Activity partners" are pretty easy to find. What's harder is getting them to make the transition to deeper friendship where you spend time together outside of the activity.
reply

	
pfdietz 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Birding is great.
reply

	
encrypted_bird 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

A big problem for me personally is that, well, frankly, there really aren't many options around me. I live in a small farming town of 6000 people, and most things are 25-45 min away *by car*.
reply

	
abalashov 48 minutes ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

> I was just ahead of the curve.
I can relate to this. I was always moderately extroverted and sociable, but the irony has never ceased to flabbergast me that the very behaviours and interests for which nerds like me would have been stuffed into lockers and garbage cans (if I had dared to tell anyone in school that I was into computers) became, only a decade later, de rigueur for every young person.

I remember sitting in a coffee shop in 2003 (senior year of HS) trying to get kernel drivers for a PCMCIA 802.11b card to work on an ancient Compaq laptop, and being pointed, laughed at, and called -- by modern standards -- unconscienable names by a table of high schoolers nearby. It must have seemed so strange to them to see someone's head so deeply in a laptop.

And my goodness, I wouldn't have dared to confess that I talk to strangers in faraway places _online_. To be known to have substantive computer-based interactions would have branded one so profoundly socially unsuccessful, that one's very family name would be cursed with this prejudice for two generations. AIMing one's classmates on the family PC was one thing, but chatting online to likeminded peers in other countries? Why, that was radiantly gay!

But literally a few years later, I can't get anyone to make eye contact and they frequently plough into me because their heads are buried in their phones, texting people they never see.

A'ight.

reply

	
Imustaskforhelp 31 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Trust me I am in 2025 and I am in senior high school and whenever I try to talk about open source or linux or anything others. Friends have point blank said that they aren't interested in it. (only one friend showed interest/shows interests at times)
the most ironical part is that they want to become software engineers for just the money aspect but fundamentally they really don't know anything about the field or are even interested to talk about.

So in a sense this still happens :) This happened so much that I had to cut off my friends because the only thing that they were interested in talking about were woman or insta shorts and very few intellectual discussion could happen (atleast with that friend group and I would consider that friend group to be more intellectual among other peers but for some reason they just never wanted to discuss intellectual topics other than some very few occasions, mostly just shitposting being honest and I didn't enjoy the shit posting aspect that much if I am being honest as well)

reply

	
windowpains 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Let me tell you about real life. I’m a caregiver and leaving the home is simply not an option. Short trips to the store, a walk around the block, maybe, if it’s before sundown, provided the person I’m caring for is in the right mental state to be left alone for 45 minutes. If there were neighborhood pubs that might be a thing to do if I drank. Getting off social media is great for those lucky enough to have the option, but with an increasing number of people getting into their dementia years, many with no savings to afford respite or other forms of care, social media is going to be the only option for a lot of people like myself. It’s better than nothing.
reply

	
publicdebates 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

First, sorry for what you're going through. Also, your situation is definitely an outlier that I can't focus my main efforts on. Maybe someone else is meant for that. But I'm curious, why not have friends over? Is anything like this possible?
reply

	
alexisread 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Tip of the hat there, it’s a very selfless thing to commit to caregiving. From a 50kft view, we have an aging demographic globally, and the bet seems to be robotics- hopefully they will get good enough to help meaningfully in this capacity. What happens to an economic system predicated around having more kids (GDP growth) is another concern.
reply

	
olyjohn 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

We already have the ability to take care of people now. All it needs is is for someone in power to give a fuck and set up a system and fund it. The suggestion that we do nothing for 30 years so we can leave our loved ones home with a robot care taker is kind of fucking angering.
reply

	
uriegas 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

The robotics thing to replace caregivers misses the point that elder people also want connection. Yeah, it might free caregivers but still we will have a loneliness epidemic. I think this is more related to the desire for progress which is the backbone of modern life (you see it politics, school, your family, etcetera). This, I believe, has been slowly replacing the social glue of societies like religion, public space, play, chatting, etcetera.
reply

	
HPsquared 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

It's like China during the opium epidemic.
Maybe we'll see Europe try and ban social media, leading to a kind of "Opium War" to keep it going on the pretext of "freedom" and so on.

reply

	
tekne 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

My friend, don't scare quote freedom.
Sure, it may not have infinite value, but there are plenty of far less valuable things we endure significant harm to be able to enjoy.

And I say this as someone who absolutely hates social media.

reply

	
HPsquared 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Usually countries don't go to war over actual principles such as these but for self-interest. That's what I was getting at. Scare quotes indicate the position of the concept within public-facing rhetoric for an Opium War style operation (which would presumably be about profit, control and so on, the usual).
reply

	
Aurornis 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

> Now, everyone is an internet addict, and I was just ahead of the curve. No one hangs around and chats anymore.
A lot of the events and spaces I go to have people who hang around and chat.

I agree that internet use has had an impact, but I think it's easy to underestimate how much situations change as you grow up. Now that I have kids, it seems like we're always ending up in spaces where people are hanging out and chatting. As far as my kids know, that's just the way the world works.

I thought the same up through college, then I graduated and suddenly spontaneous socialization ended. I had to change my habits to go find other people.

reply

	
pixl97 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

>how much situations change as you grow up
And yet this looks very different from what 40+ years back looked like for adults so it's not just about growing up, there was other massive changes in our society.

For example the number of kids we had in the past dramatically affected 'forced' socialization.

The post war suburbanization that forced us to spend huge amounts of time on the road.

Things like TV that took entertainment from a group activity to a single person event.

All these things added up.

reply

	
7speter 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

>Things like TV that took entertainment from a group activity to a single person event.
TV was the visual replacement of radios, and both used to bring families together for tv events… I remember lots of instances of that as a child.

It also brought people together at work. Everyone used to watch nearly the same things, and even up to 15 years ago, there’d at least be groups you could find in your office who was watching the same things you did, and could engage in water cooler talk.

Now theres so many shows on streaming networks, and you can watch whenever, so its all fractured.

reply

	
roadside_picnic 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Thankfully social media is getting so much worse so fast it's making this easier and easier. HN is the last social media platform I still participate in... and I suspect that might not be for too much longer.
I recently logged onto Facebook and Instagram to update my 2-factor auth settings after having too many notifications of malicious login attempts. It was incredible to see what a transformation has happened there, it's like going to a decaying suburban shopping mall with only a few stores left open (and sort of sad to see the remaining users so continually desperate for a drop of approval from some imagined community).

Reddit is mostly bots, astro-turfers and people so brainwashed it's hard to tell the difference. I remember disagreeing with people on there (this in the pre-Digg migration era) you would get interesting divergent points of view. Now it's like people are reading from a script.

Twitter used to be my strongest addiction, but it's almost unbelievable how big a transformation has occurred since it became X. It's almost a parody of everyone's dystopian social media fears.

HN has obviously held up a bit better, but the AI driven mass hallucination impacting this community, combined with the increasingly aggressive manipulation of the home page, is continually making logging out for good seem like the best option.

reply

	
epistasis 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

> Reddit is mostly bots, astro-turfers and people so brainwashed it's hard to tell the difference. I remember disagreeing with people on there (this in the pre-Digg migration era) you would get interesting divergent points of view. Now it's like people are reading from a script.
It's hard to classify Reddit as one thing, the communities are all so different.

The subreddit for my town has led to several new friends that I meet with in person. Most of that came from coming together to advocate for something at a city council meeting or similar, where there was a directed meat space purpose. Getting together for hobbies like hiking or other things happens once in a while too.

On other, technical subreddits dedicated to digging deep into details, there are few bots. It's all real people with shared interests. Reddit is far better than most forums that I frequent for finding those communities.

The few times I have been swarmed by bots on Reddit was when I touched on a topic where, say, Russia had a strategic interest, then the subreddit would get tons of new commentators from other subreddits, which was the indication of bots. Fortunately the mods took swift action when this happened, becuase my god the discourse is awful when bots flood the zone with their babble.

reply

	
michaelt 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

> The few times I have been swarmed by bots on Reddit was when I touched on a topic where, say, Russia had a strategic interest
The thing is, bot operators know they can’t just post on Russia-related topics - they need a smokescreen of other ‘normal human’ activity, to avoid getting detected and banned.

If the bots that swarmed you want to appear as only 5% pro-russian, for every response you got they had to make 19 other posts. Predictable advice in advice subs, lukewarm takes in entertainment subs, reposts in image subs, repetitive worn out jokes everywhere.

reply

	
nervousvarun 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Totally agree. When people say "Reddit is mostly bots" I find they're really talking about political subs.
Niche/hobby subs are mostly bot-free.

reply

	
Imustaskforhelp 21 minutes ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Yes I feel the same way too. This exactly captures what I am feeling right now. I wish there was a way to upvote this twice, thank you so much for writing this!
The only place I am usually active is on Hackernews and on bluesky as wel

> HN has obviously held up a bit better, but the AI driven mass hallucination impacting this community, combined with the increasingly aggressive manipulation of the home page, is continually making logging out for good seem like the best option.

I am not kidding, this is so true. I don't know if I can get flagged again but oh well, The amount of manipulation happening in HN is insane and flagging and just about everything

People called me bots twice on Hackernews for no apparent reason which really hurt and then I created a post about it which got flagged again as well and the responses were.. well not so sympathetic

I feel like I would be better off being an robot than a human in hackernews at this point smh. You get called bots for simply existing and showing your viewpoint or having a viewpoint (different?) or just no apparent reason and I genuinely don't know.

Bluesky has some faults as well but It's (I must admit) more focused on politics. i like the weeds of things in coding. I found some coding spaces in bluesky but they are just not there yet. I ended up spending 2 hours or something trying to build an extension which can automatically create threads for large posts because (you can see) i love writing large posts and bluesky has 300 characters limit and that annoyed me

I don't know what to do as well. I am thinking of still using Hackernews and bluesky but to an degree of moderation. I have tried discord and that doesn't work as well.

Honestly I just don't know as well but right now I atleast feel that I am not alone in this. I am not feeling lonely about feeling like this so once again massive thank you man, these are the comments which lure me into entering hackernews. Not people accusing me of being bots for no apparent reason and this happened on both bluesky and hackernews where pople called me bot and I actually try to be respectful and uh in bluesky someone went on 10 thread comment saying silence AI or silence bot when I was trying to be reasonable for the most part until I trolled them back

And in all of this questioning myself what did I do wrong, did I have a stance and they wanted to deny it and said something, the HN instance just mentioned my name as the reason I am a clanker. All of these things genuinely made me feel like people just wont trust me in being part of this community if someone (even after being a year in) trying to respond nicely and following the rules mostly can call me clanker

Like I just don't know what to do with either bots or people who accuse (you) of being bots. Both just feel the worst in social media and are actively rotting both HN and many other communties to the point that I dont even know what are some good alternatives

I think the biggest negative impact of AI is the fact that we aren't able to trust each other online in my opinion or trust art and other issues as well.

Once again thank you man for writing this. Your comment gets what I am talking about as well and I didn't know how to summarize what I wanted to say!

reply

	
spike021 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I feel like the idea social media prevents socializing in real life is a bit of a straw man.
I've made many friends over the years through platforms like Instagram, some in countries I don't even live in, and we've met many times in person.

Of course that won't necessarily work for everyone but the point I'm trying to make is that social media isn't some one way street that won't return value.

reply

	
SchemaLoad 51 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

There's social media, and then theres "social" media. Someone veged out to tiktok or instagram reels is not socialising. They are trapped in an endless state of scrolling slop.
We probably need some laws or regulation that strip out the random algorithm selected junk from feeds and return it to just posts from your friends and family.

reply

	
Zaskoda 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

People are seeking multiple things on social media. One common one is connection. I am in Mexico dealing with family business. I am in a rural area. My Spanish skills are developing but are still weak. I can have light conversation here, but I can't deeply connect. My desire to use social media has drastically increased.
But I only want to engage with my friends. Every platform feeds me various flavors of rage bait mixed in with my friends' content. Some of my friends groups have moved to chats on other less public platforms like Discord, Signal, or Whatsapp. But that's not the same experience. And a lot of the people I like to engage with aren't moving over to those platforms.

We all thought maybe social media would evolve into something good... but it was enshitified. So maybe part of the solution here is to develop a tool that offers that connection without the whole being exploited aspect?

reply

	
mtrovo 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I know the feeling but my impression is that interacting with people that are strictly internet friends is a proxy to the real thing, the same way watching porn is a proxy for the real thing. When you spend X hours talking to people on the Internet you're spending at least less X hours talking to people IRL and building the sense of community that we now feel thinning away.
I know people that are internet famous and are terminally online all the time. I'm pretty sure it must feel like they're accomplishing something but for somebody IRL not familiar with the game they're playing their life looks very weird socially.

My current mindset for this is that social media should only work augmenting my real world social life, not take what's left of it away from me.

reply

	
Zaskoda 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

> My current mindset for this is that social media should only work augmenting my real world social life, not take what's left of it away from me.
110%

reply

	
throwup238 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> (unwalkable towns where all of the houses are big garages in the front and no porches)
You can turn the garage into a hangout spot. A neighbor has a full bar with communal table plus TV for sports and he opens up the garage door once a week on a schedule (Sunday game day or whatever depending on the season) and whenever he feels like it on work week evenings. As people pass by we invite them over and after a few months everyone knows that when the garage is open, they can come over for a drink and to shoot the shit. Low pressure social interactions that often turn into weekend outings, regular poker games, etc.

Now years later we get impromptu block parties when he brings out the grill onto the driveway. It’s done wonders for our community in an otherwise unwalkable SoCal suburb.

reply

	
michaelrpeskin 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

This works wonders. I did it accidentally. In March 2020 when my gym closed, I started working out every night in the garage. After a couple of weeks a neighbor who I only ever said "hi" to wondered by and asked if he could join since his gym was closed. After a while more showed up, and now I have like 12 people every day show up. One Friday someone brought a bottle of whiskey and we hung out after the workout and now weekly happy hours are a regular occurrence. The neighbors who don't workout stop by after the workout for happy hour. It's almost become expected and folks schedule their weeks around it so that they can be there for drinks in the evening. As a super introvert nerd, I never thought I'd be the center of community in my neighborhood.
reply

	
publicdebates 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

This is something I absolutely would not feel comfortable doing unless I was warmly encouraged to join in, that's how I've been turned into a social outcast in my youth. I know some people who for a fact feel the same way.
Maybe one solution is therapy, to help massage them out of their shell, to help them learn to be vulnerable and unafraid and friendly. But many of them refuse to go to therapy for whatever reason also.

These are things I will be running into as I try to resolve this. I have already encountered a young man named Daniel who remembered me, and told me that he was hospitalized, and that the thought of me and my sign helped him get through it. I'm dealing with people on all spectrums of mental health.

In fact, maybe that's kind of the point. I'm trying to reach out to people who refuse to go to therapy, who have internal thoughts berating them all day long, and I have the unique opportunity of helping them through the darkness and into the light of the truth, that they are valuable and lovable, if only people saw the true them, and trusted them to become that.

reply

	
dugidugout 47 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

I am affected by extreme conscientiousness and would be described as a social outcast in my current state I'm sure.
I've always had a decent social network through proximity alone (neighborhood, education, etc.) and in this comfort, built a harsh prejudice against outgoing behavior. I'm not even sure why I held this perspective so deeply for so long, but I reviled the thought of intruding on others and only warranted intrusion on those I judged willful intruders. Most of my relationships are sufficiently available, but not very deep given my refusal to assert vulnerably (including against others vulnerabilities).

I was lucky to find Dostoevsky, Camus, and Hesse notably, which helped break some of my absurd dispositions. However, my entire social network was still rotten on a basis of inauthentic connection and intellectualizing this can only go so far. You must live the perspective and it is hard and vulnerable.

Thank you for these words, I find your mission deeply humane and I strive to live through a similar spirit.

reply

	
Fr0styMatt88 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Yep. I grew up in the era of ‘stranger danger’. We were explicitly taught as kids to fear strangers and socialising. We were taught “don’t be rude and butt in to conversations uninvited”, etc.
Still, something else is off. In the 90s, the Internet was a way to expand your social circle. So many friends made on IRC groups that moved into real life.

Nowadays yeah, commenting on Reddit and chatting to friends in message groups does feel like socialising, even though you might go two weeks without seeing anyone other than coworkers, cashiers (maybe) and Uber Eats delivery drivers.

reply

	
magicalhippo 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

> This is something I absolutely would not feel comfortable doing
Part of it I think is to endure the uncomfortable for a bit.

I felt really uncomfortable in social settings, and still do sometimes. But I forced myself to ignore those feelings. Now I'm at a point that if people think I'm weird or whatever then that's their problem.

I try not to be rude, be considerate and such thing, I'm not totally unhinged. But I am much more relaxed about just being me. Sometimes it doesn't work, but often it's all good.

reply

	
chasd00 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

on my son's bday i drug our firepit out to the front yard and setup some chairs for my wife and I to welcome his friends as they arrived. Maybe a dozen people in our neighborhood walking their dog or out for a run just dropped by to say hello and talk. I guess the fire looked very inviting (it was a chilly evening). I'm going to start doing it regularly, it's an easy way to meet people in your community.
reply

	
pelotron 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

This is totally badass. Makes me want to clean out my garage for just such a thing.
reply

	
pkulak 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Third_place
reply

	
srean 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Yes.
Our lopsided emphasis on individualism, our definition of economic efficiency that does not include the mental health value, these have been detrimental to our connections, roots, community, family etc.

We said, let the mom and pop stores die, their replacements provide the same value but more efficiently. Let community bonds die they intrude upon our individual destiny.

But we did not correctly account for the value provided by those that we chose to replace. So it is not surprising that we find ourselves here.

Could it have played out any other way ? I doubt it. Our world is an underdamped system, so we will keep swinging towards the extremes, till we figure out how to get a critically damped system. The other serious problem is that the feedback system is so laggy, that's a biggy in feedback control loops.

reply

	
LorenPechtel 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

The world has become a much bigger place. You used to know who to avoid, the default was someone was acceptable. Now the ones to avoid move around and it's all too likely that a newcomer is such a person.
reply

	
tenacious_tuna 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

> Now the ones to avoid move around and it's all too likely that a newcomer is such a person.
This seems a wild generalization to make, though I guess "be suspicious of newcomers" is a little biologically hardwired. What's your epistemology for believing "newcomers" are "the ones to avoid"?

reply

	
1bpp 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I think it's still likely that most new people you'll encounter aren't malicious. I have to wonder what your mental image of a 'newcomer' looks like.
reply

	
seneca 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

> Our lopsided emphasis on individualism
This reads like that pattern where people assign blame for all issues to whatever thing they happen to not like. The US is the least individualistic it has ever been, but there was much more community and less loneliness in the past. That make it pretty obvious that the issue here isn't "individualism".

reply

	
srean 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

I am not from the US but your observation, if correct, would offer a counterexample worth thinking about.
You are saying that in the past, more resources were spent supporting individuals than the resources spent supporting communities and yet communities were stronger. That sure would be an interesting thing to understand if true. My interest is certainly piqued, seems too good to be true though.

reply

	
dymk 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Exactly this. Vote for representatives that want to build walkable cities, support small businesses, and want to build parks. Suburban sprawl sucks.
reply

	
eddieroger 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

No it doesn't. I live in a planned neighborhood in the suburbs. I can walk to a branch of my local library, a few restaurants, a bar, a bookstore, I even get my haircut in my neighborhood. And even if none of that existed, nothing has stopped me from being friends with my neighbors, or the parents of my kid's friends. The suburbs are a different model with tradeoffs, but they're also useful for periods and phases of life different from the ones served by urban settings.
reply

	
stryan 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

A planned neighborhood is technically by definition not suburban sprawl, as sprawl requires a lack of planning. On the other hand, I'd argue if you can do all of that (and said walking distance is under a mile[0]) you're not even in a suburb, you're in a dense enough location to be a town or small city. Unfortunately thanks to American zoning and planning it can be very difficult to know what your home area is actually considered and it makes this type of anecdotal evidence not particularly useful[1].
[0] A mile is essentially the farthest the average person will comfortable walk versus driving a car for travel that does not require carrying anything back. Once you add in carrying things (e.g. groceries) it drops to half a mile. Anything less dense than that and people won't want to walk, anything more dense than that and you're into standard city planning.

[1] Assuming you're American of course and obviously I'm not about to ask you to dox yourself, considering this type of thing can vary right down to the neighbourhood level.

reply

	
SchemaLoad 47 minutes ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

>I can walk to a branch of my local library, a few restaurants, a bar, a bookstore, I even get my haircut in my neighborhood.
If you can walk to these things, you don't live in the areas the parent comment is talking about. "Suburban sprawl" doesn't mean all suburbs, it's specifically the ones which don't have facilities and community.

reply

	
PaulHoule 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Urban environments blunt people's connection to other people too, see
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murder_of_Kitty_Genovese

If you pack people in too tight they just tune each other out.

reply

	
huhkerrf 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

I mean, the very first paragraph of your own link says: "However, subsequent investigations revealed that the extent of public apathy was exaggerated." and the second paragraph says, "Researchers have since uncovered major inaccuracies in the Times article, and police interviews revealed that some witnesses had attempted to contact authorities."
reply

	
BurningFrog 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Voting isn't going to fix this problem in our lifetimes.
We need to do things ourselves.

reply

	
tokioyoyo 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I live in probably the most walkable city in the world, but there are millions of lonely people here as well. From any of my observations, I can’t pinpoint to one single problem.
It might be a composite effect of different things contributing to the easiness of being alone. Cultural skill that overtime gets eroded, and as less time people spend among others, it becomes even harder to go back.

reply

	
toomuchtodo 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

This. I also like the idea of libraries having a cafe, internet access, a place to meet, all non profit and owned by the community. Community is a function of distance, broadly speaking.
reply

	
reaperducer 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I also like the idea of libraries having a cafe, internet access, a place to meet, all non profit and owned by the community.
There are lots of libraries with cafes, maker spaces, and more. Seattle is one.

If yours doesn't, this is your wake-up call to get involved with your local library. Stop waiting for someone else to do things.

reply

	
nereye 11 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Which Seattle library (am assuming you're referring to SPL/Seattle Public Library system) has a maker space?
There is no maker space listed at https://www.spl.org/programs-and-services/a-z-programs-and-s....

Within KCLS, there are two public libraries that have maker spaces (AFAIK): Bellevue, Federal Way.

PS this is not meant to be confrontational, would love it if there were more maker spaces in libraries (when have asked in the past, the usual answer is that they do not have enough space for it).

reply

	
reaperducer 1 minute ago | root | parent | next [–]

No, the Seattle reference was for the cafe, not a maker space.

	
huhkerrf 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I'm willing to bet that the libraries near the person you're talking to have all but maybe a cafe. I mean, I've never seen a library in the US that didn't have internet access and a place to meet and that weren't nonprofit.
reply

	
SoftTalker 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Suburban sprawl is not going to be "fixed" in anyones lifetime. But it doesn't have to be limiting. I grew up in a very typical suburban style neighborhood in the 1970s. Tract homes, lots of cul-de-sac streets. But neighbors talked to one another, kids played together, there were summer gatherings in those cul-de-sacs on the 4th of July or Labor Day.
Don't think you have to live in some idealized fantasy land to go talk to your neighbors.

reply

	
ecshafer 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I live in a suburban neighborhood with a couple bag ends, our neighborhood is pretty social. couple of neighborhood bbqs a year, kids all playing together every day, dinners, etc. It is quiet and not a lot of traffic with long term residents. I am not 100% on what exactly the key is for a town is, I think style matters, but Ive been in walkable neighborhoods without a good community, and non-walkable neighborhoods with one.
reply

	
SoftTalker 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I'll say that when I was a kid, the neighborhood was still as it was originally built, no sidewalks. Didn't stop anyone from socializing, didn't stop kids from biking around.
The city added sidewalks there in the '00s or so, but when I go back there I almost never see anyone using them.

I think the trend of isolation and loneliness is not really related to infrastructure or stuff like "walkability." Those things are pretty minor obstacles.

reply

	
johnpaulkiser 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

How big were the lots? How far of a walk was the closest bar, grocery store, cafe? Do you have to walk onto someone's property to talk to them if they are sitting on the porch?
I lived in a car dependent burb for 20+ years and would rarely, if ever, run into my neighbors out on the town. Living in a walkable neighborhood in a medium-low density city for under a year and I regularly run into my neighbors.

reply

	
SoftTalker 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Standard 0.25 acre suburban lots. No markets, cafes, or anything like that it was a bog-standard subdivision. There was a small park sort of centrally located but that was really the only ammenity. Supermarket was a few miles away. Nobody walked there, cars to go anywhere. Neighbors still knew one another, at least on the same streets. Kids met at school, figured out where each other lived.
reply

	
netsharc 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

> bag ends
Never seen "cul de sac" in English before...

reply

	
SoftTalker 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Never heard "bag end" myself.
reply

	
ecshafer 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I knew cul de sac was french for bag end, or end of sack or whatever the translation was. One time reading lord of the rings after learning Tolkien explicitly avoided french loan words, I realized Bilbo living at Bag End is kind of a joke. Its just saying Bilbo lives in the cul de sac.
reply

	
californical 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

> idealized fantasy land
For what it's worth, many (most?) countries have most of their people living in places that are not sprawling suburbs. It's worst in the "Anglosphere" countries (US/Canada/Australia) within the last 50-70 years, but it's absolutely not a fantasy land. It's the way things were everywhere before 1940, and most places still are today.

I say that because it is fixable, if we let ourselves fix it...

Your point stands though, even in a fairly antisocial layout of a suburb, you can still usually make friends with a decent number of people nearby.

reply

	
Aurornis 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

The common retort is that these don't exist any more, but in my experience they're all over. If you have kids you start seeing them everywhere, too. They're not as classically romantic as an ancient Greek agora, but there are plenty of spaces. During the summer I'm probably at a different space 5 days a week with the kids after school.
I think the real problem is that some people forget how to go places. It's so easy to do the routine of work -> dinner -> screen time -> sleep -> repeat that time vanishes from people.

Whenever I hear people, usually young and single, complain that their 8 hour job leaves 0 hours in the day to do anything and they're too tired on the weekends to go out, it's always this: Their time is disappearing into their screens, which makes it feel like their only waking hours go to work. I try to give gentle nudges to help give people ideas, but none of them really want to hear that it's something they can change. It's just so easy to believe that life has thrust this situation upon us and there's nothing we can do about it.

reply

	
cybwraith 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

> The common retort is that these don't exist any more
Usually when I see the retort, its also with the understanding that 3rd places need to be free, or essentially free. If theres a significant expectation of money being spent in order to spend time there, its not really a “3rd place” by the intended definition. (Thats the argument I’ve seen)

reply

	
StevePerkins 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

That has never really been part of the definition. If you look at that Wikipedia article a couple comments up, I only see two examples (i.e. stoops and parks) that are free, and I think parks are a stretch because conversation is not a primary reason for most people going there.
reply

	
BubbleRings 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I wrote on my white board, "There goes today's hour." So if I'm walking by and I read it again, and I just spent some time on some mindless phone thing, I remember that I could find a better use of my free time tomorrow.
reply

	
kmeisthax 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Also, people forgot how to find places. If you're driving a car, places speed by too fast to see or remember (and it's dangerous to spend too much time looking at them). On Google, places are actively hidden from you for the sake of making the map look "cleaner". Every time I go downtown (on transit, not by car) I notice new shit that just doesn't exist on the map unless you specifically type in the name to get Google to admit that it exists.
reply

	
immibis 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I noticed this the first time I took a walk by myself to the town center rather than letting my parents drive me there. You know the routine: drive to the mall parking lot, go and get the thing you're looking for, drive home. Well, I didn't have my own car and figured I could walk there (about an hour, so probably 2-3km, in a country that uses sidewalks). It's basically magical how much stuff you notice that you would just ignore when in the car, even as a passenger.
reply

	
conductr 2 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

I do this. Even to the point where I go to church yet am openly agnostic. Takes the right church, I enjoy a good pastor and message even if I don’t technically believe it can be rooted in morality or philosophy and I can filter out the religious aspects. I could do without the singing but that’s my wife’s favorite part.
The thing is, church works for this because it’s an agreed upon and set time of the week. It’s also a broad group of people. Having friends of all ages is beneficial. I prefer it to a hobby group or our parent groups where we are all very similar in many aspects, although I do those too I just feel like their impact is less on building my own character.

It’s hard to lose what has been lost in the macro sense and then go from 0 to 1. A social movement like “screen free Saturday” or something would be ideal. Kids had to prearrange where to meet, where the teens will party (they don’t party anymore yall!), arrange logistics, and deal with being bored during some part of the day (underrated life skill, as a busy adult I love being bored, but hated it when young). I just recently explained to my kid how TV worked in the 80s. You couldn’t pick what to watch and there were very few times when cartoons were on. You either watched the news or MASH with the adults or found something else to do out of boredom.

reply

	
dfabulich 2 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

This is answering the wrong question.
You're answering the question, "In a loneliness epidemic, what can I do to be less lonely?" Your answer is to use self discipline (which is hard) to get out of your house consistently, a decent answer to that question.

To actually fix the loneliness epidemic, you'd have to get everyone else to do that.

In the 20th century, getting out of the house consistently was the easiest way to interact with other people. Now, you can interact with lots of other people (in a less satisfying way) without leaving your house. What's going to fix that?

How do we get everyone to eat better? How do we get everyone to get enough sleep? How do we get everyone to exercise more? "Just tell them to do it" won't work. "Why don't we all just put our phones away?" won't work. We'd need a policy.

(My best guess: in the US, mandate that health insurers pay for therapy, and provide therapy at low/no cost in countries with national health care.)

reply

	
SchemaLoad 42 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

100%. Telling people they just need to work harder and do better feel like good advice but it isn't going to solve a population scale problem. Sure _you_ should do it because it's the only thing you can directly control, but also understand it isn't going to solve the problem an entire society is facing.
reply

	
publicdebates 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I was with you up until you said policy was the solution. No, action must come first. Policy needs people to agree on it, and can take a long time to enact. Action can be done now, and allows experimentation and disagreement. I am looking for actionable solutions that I can experiment with as one lone individual with time to spare on Sundays.
reply

	
dfabulich 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

If you're looking for individual advice, instead of "solving" the whole epidemic, then here's mine.
To solve loneliness for yourself, you've got to get out of the house more. But, deep down, you already knew that, right? Just like we all know we should exercise more, eat better, etc. Self discipline is hard.

So, my advice for that is to work with a therapist. A therapist can help you do the thing that you know you need to do but can't make yourself do.

People often think therapy is only for "serious" problems, but it's great for just helping you to stop sabotaging yourself (and we all sabotage ourselves, in big ways and small).

Therapists have regularly scheduled appointments, which also helps in its own right. (You'll get better workout results if you exercise weekly with a trainer.)

Scheduled recurring appointments make it easier to attend other social gatherings, too. The chess club means every Tuesday night. People will be watching Monday night football at the bar. Church is on Sunday. (Temple is on Saturday, Jumu'ah is on Friday, etc.)

But you knew all that, already, too. To do what you already knew you need to do, try therapy.

reply

	
publicdebates 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

Sorry no, I think you misunderstood.
For the whole thread, it's open-ended. People can brainstorm whatever they want to based on the title. It's good that it's ambiguous. The more conversations, the better.

But for me, I'm looking for ways that I can help solve other people's loneliness, both on an individual basis, and eventually en masse, but still me doing something as one individual.

This is what all my replies have been about, and why I posted one top-level comment asking that very specific question. I want to know what individuals can do that's actionable to help other people.

reply

	
wanderingstan 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> Attend every week.
In my experience, this is the key. “90% of life is showing up.” If you are around the same people every week, for whatever reason, with even a minimal amount of openness and friendliness, you will get community.

reply

	
aqme28 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Exactly. It can take a month or more but the secret for me is to “become a regular” at places I like.
reply

	
blahaj 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

That doesn't work for everyone and everywhere.
reply

	
aleph_minus_one 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> People need to purposefully and intentionally do things. Sitting home on an app, watching TV is easy. There is no fear or rejection, there is no work to get out of the house, there is no risk. But there is also no reward.
This is the wrong model:

Sitting (alone) at home and working on program code or reading scientific textbooks does have a reward. Many things for which you go outside of the house or where you interact with other people have a much lower reward. So you rather loose a rather decent local optimum, and if you don't know very well where to look outside for something really good, you get much worse results than if you simply stayed at home and do there what you love.

reply

	
jselysianeagle 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I think by "reward" in the context of this discussion on loneliness, OP may have meant the opportunity to meet people, make friends, perhaps hit it off with someone and land a date, if you're single. Not that it's entirely useless/detrimental to spend time at home reading or pursuing whatever solo hobbies you happen to have.
To be sure, there certainly are many introverts who are perfectly happy on their own with no need to get out and meet people. More power to them! But there are many that crave human connection, even if they happen to have many intellectual interests and for these types of individuals, they would be well served at least carving out some portion of their time to get out of the house with the explicit aim of meeting people. And yes, not every such outing will lead to lifelong friends or meeting your next soulmate, but it's a numbers game.

reply

	
gulugawa 19 minutes ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

It's also possible to write code or read scientific textbooks for the goal of promoting social connection.
reply

	
brailsafe 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

> you get much worse results than if you simply stayed at home and do there what you love.
That's a sense of risk and caution that gets too comfortable for some people to compete with over time. If you don't build yourself better options, all you want to do is sit at home and do the thing that guarantees a reward. Then you get in your car and move about the world in a way that you feel is guaranteed to protect you from conditions, other people, but really is dangerous. You bet only on certainty, and outcomes are predictable, but they're not compatible with not being lonely

reply

	
PaulHoule 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

My son is comparing every alternative to what he can accomplish by staying home and practicing guitar. However, we are trying to start an anime theme song cover band (e.g. "Upstate NY's most energetic opening act") for which he's going to play Bass, Rhythm or Lead as needed and I'm going to be the Kitsune/Band Manager/Mascot.
reply

	
acron0 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

We are optimising for reducing loneliness, remember.
reply

	
aleph_minus_one 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I am of course aware of that.
But reducing loneliness is just a means to an end. My point is that there exist a lot of rewarding things that you can do alone at home, which may give you a hapiness malus because of the loneliness, but also a happiness bonus because you like the activity.

If a solution to reducing loneliness shall be sustainable, it better increases the happiness or rewardingness overall, too. Otherwise you see loneliness as a problem, but see the alternatives as being the worse options, i.e. by rational choice, the loneliness will not be reduced.

reply

	
pbhjpbhj 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

You can be happy, well maybe content, but still lonely. It sounds like you're just trying to optimise your happiness, which is fine for you.
reply

	
pbalau 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

What a stupid take, but it showcases the underlying problem: there is no loneliness issue, there is a "me me me" issue.
Friendship is a two way contract: you add something to someone's life and they will consider you their friend, they add something to your life, making them your friend.

If you "optimize" for your own and only your own benefit, nobody is going to be your friend.

reply

	
publicdebates 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Sure, but what about the people who don't do this? Those who sit at home all day, scrolling away, drinking themselves to death, wondering why life is so lonely.
The only time you ever see such people is when they're walking to the grocery store. How do you reach out to them to let them know about these ideas or encourage them to try it? Especially when they're filled with discouraging thoughts?

What if all they need is one single person to say hi? How can I find them, reach them? This is what I'm asking.

reply

	
dfabulich 52 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

I've reviewed this and your other comments on the thread, and I think you're making a mistake, believing that to solve the loneliness epidemic, you primarily need to "reach people."
As long as leaving the house and making real contact is harder (requires more self discipline) than staying in and scrolling, all you can do is project a message to folks at home, like "hi, you're not alone in feeling lonely," but you haven't solved the fundamental problem: it's harder to do the right thing than it is to do the wrong thing.

To solve the loneliness epidemic, you have to make the right thing easier than the wrong thing. "Reaching out" to more people will not accomplish that. Elsewhere in this thread, you've rejected the idea of pursuing a public policy, but policy is the only answer anyone's provided in this thread that could make that happen.

(Now, it turns out that you'll have to do a lot of outreach to make a public policy happen, but you'll be asking for their vote, not a regular commitment to show up weekly at a club; outreach is the right approach to that problem.)

reply

	
luplex 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

We need the Tiktoks of the world to realize their responsibility: users get addicted to the apps in order to numb their feelings of loneliness. So we'd need an intervention within these apps that makes them unbearable for the lonely, combined with a healthier way to engage with loneliness.
Imagine TikTok asking you "you've scrolled for 30 minutes. You might be in a loneliness spiral. Write down the name of someone you would like to be closer to."

reply

	
publicdebates 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

TikTok does in fact remind you, quite often, that you've been scrolling for a while, and suggests taking a break. Last year, for most of each day, I would just ignore this and keep scrolling. I'd see it so many times each day. That wouldn't change if they added a suggestion like writing a name down. I'd still ignore it, and I think most people in the same situation would too. But when I was at the store, or walking to the store, that's when someone could have found a way in, and been able to get me to make a connection and open up.
reply

	
SchemaLoad 38 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Sure, in the same way gambling companies tell you to "Gamble responsibly" at the end of their advert to get you to gamble more.
Imo short form video with infinite scrolling is straight up poison and it's impossible to resolve without just completely destroying it.

reply

	
randysalami 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Or hear me out, puts you in video call with someone watching the same short as you. Involuntary friend
reply

	
publicdebates 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Omegle + TikTok sounds like a very bad idea.
reply

	
chasd00 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

> What if all they need is one single person to say hi?
Then say 'hi'. By definition they're not going to seek you out nor are they going to be findable so you're only option is to say hi to everyone and hope one sticks.

edit: heh i hope you're not talking about me, i walk to the grocery store regularly by myself. It's how a take a break from work and get some exercise. i'm fine :)

reply

	
publicdebates 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

That's my point. How can I tell the difference?
One of my ideas was legitimately to just hold a giant sign that just says "hi"

I had this idea a few months ago, but never wanted to waste a whole Sunday on it. Maybe I should.

reply

	
andyclap2 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

To me that seems like not saying hi, rather a device to shift the risk of engaging off of you. Don't be scared. Just say a few banal words to people you don't know every day and gauge their reaction, start a conversation if you like and they seem to be up for it.
reply

	
ecshafer 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

You just have to become the most friendly ultimate host in the world. Start up random conversations with those people at the grocery store or on the street and invite them to your bbq you are having this weekend.
But ultimately, if a man is sitting in his kitchen and its on fire. Its up to him to run out. No amount of reaching out will help until he decides to make the change.

reply

	
digbybk 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

This is good advice for your friends and family, but a bad answer to the question. "How can we solve the obesity epidemic? Stop eating so much and get some exercise." Well sure, but this misses the big picture. We built a social infrastructure that encourages a sedentary, solitary life. We shouldn't be confused by physical and emotional health implications. We can expect some people to be proactive about it, but we can't expect that of everyone.
reply

	
ecshafer 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I guess we need to delete the internet and tv from existence.
I think that the more people getting out and putting effort in the better, it helps create a knock on effect.

reply

	
digbybk 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

> I guess we need to delete the internet and tv from existence.
If only. My preferred solution is a 4 year national service. College is a key place to form a friend network, but not everyone gets to go.

reply

	
fbn79 1 hour ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Join a religious organization to fight loneliness is like start smoking to loose weight.
reply

	
PlatoIsADisease 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

Yeah I thought that was weird, along with joining ethnic organizations. I don't really need to explain the religion thing, but ethnic organizations are weird since you are forming an identity based on your unchoosable parent's DNA. I've seen both used by leaders to weaponize their members at their members detriment.
Although, if you are doing politics, I can see this being pragmatically useful.

reply

	
Barrin92 57 minutes ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

it also doesn't even fight loneliness. Loneliness isn't solved by merely not being physically alone. I grew up in a Catholic environment but because I bought exactly none of it the religious environments were exactly where I felt most isolated.
You're not solving loneliness by joining a cult or a gang. You can only deal with it by making authentic connections to people you actually want to be with. Countless of people are lonely and miserable within families.

reply

	
bherms 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

this is one reason, while i personally work from home, i actually lament that many 20-somethings will never be in an office
i'm nearing 40, have a wife and kid, house in the mountains, etc... but, damn, those office days were foundational to the person I am today

reply

	
mystifyingpoi 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

While this is true, it's worth mentioning that a regular coffee machine small talk in the office is not building any relationships. At least that's how I experience it. It can start one, but won't automatically make one.
I can go for a coffee and routinely get dragged into 30 min conversation about politics, or cars, or weather, or any other subject I literally don't care about. All the good relationships begin with finding a niche topic between 2 people.

reply

	
bherms 52 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

YMMV I guess. I've got tons of friends I've made walking around the office and just dropping in and asking people what they're working on and introducing myself, or sitting at a table with people I didn't. Some are no more than acquaintances, but some are close friends now.
reply

	
pbalau 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Do you put any effort in steering the discussion towards something you care about?
A discussion that started about the newest model of some car, ended up with that person fixing my boat's outboard motor.

reply

	
codingdave 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

It doesn't have to be an office - young people just need to get out and engage with the world in whatever way works for them. I tell this to my teenagers all the time. They are used to our nice house in the woods, 10 minutes outside of town, where their old parents work remotely and relax at home. But I remind them that this is a good place for our old age, not their youth. I spent my 20s exploring the world, climbing mountains, meeting new people, making mistakes, learning, and growing. They would be happier if they likewise got out and explored... hopefully with fewer mistakes.
But there is far more to the world than offices, so while I agree 100% with the sentiment, I'd broaden those horizons.

reply

	
bherms 51 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Oh absolutely... I just look at the office as a "forced" version of what you said. Totally agree it's way more than just the office
reply

	
rootusrootus 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

For sure. I would have been in real trouble if covid had happened when I was 20. The few times I tried to work remotely it took a matter of just a few days to go stir crazy. The office was a good environment for me (it helped that it was legitimately a good environment with good coworkers, not everyone has that).
As a family man with a wife, two kids, two cats, and a dog ... working from home is no big deal for me now. I prefer it. I got lucky that we did not get forced into this until I was in a position to handle it well.

reply

	
silisili 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Ha, I could have written this comment word for word myself.
Sometimes when I think back to the good times at the office, I wonder if I miss being in the office, or if I just miss being young and full of energy.

Either way, I agree it's a shame for any young people today that won't get that experience. They were among my fondest times.

reply

	
vel0city 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I agree with this take. I'm definitely not friends with everyone I've worked with in person, but some of the most meaningful post-college friendships were formed by socializing with the people in the office (or people I met through socializing with office friends).
reply

	
bherms 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Yep, I met my wife at an office party - she didn't work for the company, just stopped by with someone who did
And not just the office friends that come from it -- I spent an hour a day on the bus, grabbed lunch around town, was downtown when work wrapped up and ended up at a nearby bar/restaurant, went to shows because I was downtown, etc.

Just being forced out of the house led to SO MUCH MORE.

Now I work from home and while we do travel a lot, we barely ever leave the house when we're home. We didn't make a single new friend for like 5 years (and we are a VERY social couple, generally the center of most of our friend groups). We've only just now started making new friends again now that our daughter is a toddler and getting us out of the house -- and it is incredibly refreshing

reply

	
mystifyingpoi 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Seems like someone else (your employer, or your daughter) is controlling your willingness to socialize. It doesn't have to be this way.
reply

	
onemoresoop 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

It's not just willingness, as the OP mentions, being forced out of the house lots of things happen, some of them social. Having everything in the house, from work to shopping to entertainment is a convenience that could even save you some money, but it has a cost down the line.
reply

	
bherms 49 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Yeah I'm very willing to socialize and actually do far more than pretty much anyone I know, even those without kids (but maybe not as much as a 25 year old just getting started in the world and living in SF like I once was). I'm lucky in that regard I guess.
reply

	
garbawarb 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I'm not friends with anyone but still it's better to spend some of the day around people versus all of the day alone.
reply

	
bherms 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

This as well. You need to learn to talk to people, socialize, handle adversity, etc. Sitting at home and your only real connection to the outside world being an echo chamber like facebook or whatever cannot be good for us
reply

	
vel0city 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Absolutely, I agree. Some of the people I had the sharpest debates with and didn't always agree with had way more impact on who I am today than the softer acquaintances. Most of them definitely made me a better person in the end, even if we weren't really "friends".
And yeah, even just having the basic daily connections can be a dopamine hit.

reply

	
encrypted_bird 1 hour ago | parent | prev | next [–]

I want to do this "grow at least 2 roots into your community" idea but a huge challenge for me is simply that I'm 2nd shift. That naturally leads to a lot more isolation than 1st shift. (3rd shifties, my heart goes out to you. I've done that job. Not a fun time personally.)
reply

	
browningstreet 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

A somewhat cynical response given the frequency of this topic/question being posted here and on other social media platforms. Add a weak "/s but not really" if you want:
People sitting at home living on apps and watching TV who decide to go to a new group social event to change things up will struggle to make a connection with someone else who was at home on an app and watching TV deciding to get out and meet someone else.

The people who have friends.. already have friends. Those who don't are numerous social cycle iterations in on that.

And how long before those people just end up talking about TV shows anyway?

reply

	
technothrasher 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

> who decide to go to a new group social event to change things up will struggle to make a connection with someone else
I can't imagine going to a general "group social event" like a party and making a connection. I'd end up just sitting there being bored until I left. I don't have the personality to just strike up a conversation about nothing with some one I don't know. But I do somewhat often go to events that revolve around my hobbies. There, I already have a connection with the strangers, through the hobby, and I have something to talk about or listen to. I've met plenty of new friends that way.

reply

	
StevePerkins 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Nonsense. It's fine to be boring, and to have boring friends. This expectation that you need to be travel influencer or a deep philosopher in order to have anything to talk about is an artifact of social media.
I'm old enough to remember what socialization was like pre-Internet. And by curated social media standards, it was really boring. It was also great.

reply

	
browningstreet 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

My post wasn't about socializing, it was in the context of the "loneliness epidemic" as a social topic construct.
reply

	
PaulHoule 2 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

This movie
https://joinordiefilm.com/

based on the work of Robert Putnam is an essential backgrounder on the topic.

Yet, if you're concerned about Gen Z, 2-4 are aspirational at best. Churches, clubs, live music events, and every other group my son attends have a lot of people who are 35+ and children that tag along but the 18-30 demo is almost absolutely absent at events away from the local colleges and universities. [1] It's quite depressing for someone his age who is looking to connect with his cohort in person.

Leaders of groups are somewhere between outright hostile, completely indifferent, or well-meaning but unable to do anything about the "cold start" problem.

I'm sympathetic to the argument of Ancient Wisdom Tradition (AWT) practitioners that secularism is to blame, but my consistent advice to anyone is you can control what you can control and that secularism would not have encroached as much as it has if AWT organizations weren't asleep at the switch if not doing the devil's work for him.

Personally in the last year I've found a lot of meaning being an event photographer for this group

https://fingerlakesrunners.org/

where I know you can find some people in the 18-30 hole because I read their age off their bibs.

My son is doing all the ordinary things and I am supporting him in all the ordinary ways but I do believe extraordinary times require extraordinary methods.

I can't advise that anyone follow my path but I felt a calling to shamanism two years ago which recently became real, I "go out" as

https://mastodon.social/@UP8/115901190470904729

who is a "kidult" and who embodies [2] the wisdom, calm and presence of a 1000-year old fox who's earned his nine tails. In one of the worlds I inhabit I'd call this a "platform" for gathering information and making interventions as it builds rapport and bypasses barriers and the social isolation of Gen Z is my top priority for activism in my circle of influence.

[1] ... and our data there seems to indicates that Asian students seem to be OK and white kids, if they do anything at all, drink.

[2] ... at least aspires to

reply

	
rootusrootus 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

I think what makes this good advice especially difficult is that it cannot be one-sided. When everyone is letting doom-scrolling replace their social interaction, then one person won't easily solve their own problem by going out to socialize. We need a broader solution, probably a cultural shift away from using technology as a crutch to avoid other people. Maybe the current younger generations will evolve a balance.
reply

	
wanderingstan 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Yes, for years now I’ve had this creeping feeling that it’s a social version of the prisoners dilemma: if you’re the only one that puts down the phone (or gets off social media, etc) then you’re just left behind. It’s a coordination problem.
reply

	
ecshafer 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I think that there are a lot of people that are kind of waiting for other people to pitch something to do. Maybe you want to call them type A and B, leader and follower, I think of it as the Host and Attendees. The more of the Hosts the more things that will be happening, so trying to become a Host is just creates more opportunities.
reply

	
theroncross 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Agreed. I'm not sure how it happened, but it feels like we've experienced a societal shift where a large number of people now expect and wait for other people to create nicely packaged solutions to their (real or imagined) problems. From social apps to medicine to play dates to curated vacations, too many people are unwilling to face "the great unknown" that is just going out and seeing what happens, warts and all. Somehow the ability of boomers to make conversation with strangers has become a meme instead of a norm - they're good at it because they practice it.
reply

	
BikiniPrince 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

I always tell people to find a meetup group and then you will run into people with similar interests. I’ve made some good friends that way.
reply

	
JoshTriplett 2 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> 1. People need to make a point to talk to their neighbors
There are people who find this satisfying. However, you don't typically choose your neighbors. Don't be afraid to eschew spending time on this in favor of groups you deliberately choose based on common interests.

reply

	
tyre 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

You might not choose your neighbors but, like your family, they're a part of your life anyway. You can choose to build bonds with them (rely on them to water plants, pick up packages, borrow spices) or create your own little world.
You can also find these things elsewhere—I know someone whose dry cleaner cat sits for her—but your relationship with your neighbors can still really affect your life.

reply

	
huhkerrf 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

The world could use a lot more of learning to like, or even love, the people you didn't choose.
That's how it was forever. Now it's not, and we're talking about a loneliness epidemic. I don't think those things are unrelated.

reply

	
JoshTriplett 30 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

The people who enjoy doing that should absolutely feel free to do so. My comment was addressed at people who don't, to remind people that it's okay to not, and to choose to spend your time in other ways instead.
reply

	
stronglikedan 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> Sitting home on an app, watching TV is easy. ...there is also no reward.
Like hell there isn't. Speak for yourself.

reply

	
throwaway314155 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> 2. Join a religious organization. Go to church, but also join the mens/womens group, join a bible studies class. Attend every week.
So no atheists then?

reply

	
huhkerrf 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

The great thing about the comment you're replying to is that it has a list of suggestions. So you've got two options: you can get angry that one of them doesn't cater to you, or you could skip that one and look at the others that do.
reply

	
tyg13 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Surprised to see this comment strike a nerve with the HN crowd. That was my first thought as well. Religious organizations? No thanks.
reply

	
embedding-shape 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

If you agree with the entire comment, except just that line, do you upvote or not? I think maybe that's why :) If that line was the only thing in the comment, the reaction would probably have been different.
reply

	
groundzeros2015 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Well that’s part of the problem. secularism didn’t make an alternative.
reply

	
embedding-shape 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I'd say particularly if you're an atheist. I've always been atheist, but fascinated by churches and religions regardless, because no matter what you believe, it's hard to refuse the proof that the ideas themselves are powerful and helps people a lot of the times. Why is that? Best way to find out is to talk and engage with those who have these different ideas, probably where they are the most comfortable.
Doesn't mean you need to forget all the horrible impact it has had too, and how much better humanity would probably be without it, or even continue thinking about ideas how we could finally get rid of it once and for all, without violence.

Also, probably different in different parts of the world, but in many places churches are just purely architecturally/visually beautiful and historically interesting buildings. Some of them have really interesting acoustics too, and organs. Many interesting stuff at churches :)

reply

	
staticman2 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

It's not even just an atheist issue. You have to have spiritual beliefs that value the specific repetitive church rituals so as not to be bored out of your mind.
reply

	
RiverCrochet 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Start an atheist club.
reply

	
onemoresoop 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Or join some community.
reply

	
immibis 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Join a hackerspace I suppose. Technology is a religion anyway.
reply

	
embedding-shape 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I always said science is kind of like a religion in a way. Wonder if that's closer or further from some truth than "technology". Interesting perspective nonetheless.
reply

	
bell-cot 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

   if [ atheist ] then
      's/joins a religious org/join a service org/'
Similar 'bible studies' => 'torah studies' or 'quran studies' if you're Jewish or Muslim. Just ask if you're unsure of the details.
reply

	
FrustratedMonky 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Sounds like a lot of work.
Isn't there an app where I can just order a temporary friend for a few hours.

Uber Friend.

reply

	
gulugawa 15 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

I'm working on a decentralized open source Meetup alternative where people can find social events and meet new friends. https://codeberg.org/createthirdplaces
reply

	
chasd00 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

> Isn't there an app where I can just order a temporary friend for a few hours
there's two. Only Fans and making an appointment with a therapist (basically a professional listener/friend educated in helping you help yourself).

reply

	
ashtakeaway 43 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

It was just a couple of months ago where I found myself complaining that we shouldn't have to pay exorbitant amounts of money for friendship.
Last time I went to a bar a pretty woman and her friends decided to sit next to me only after I closed my tab and was getting an Uber to go back home. She seemed super nervous just sitting next to me and I assumed that if I butted into their conversation I'd get ignored like last time.

reply

	
swah 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

1. fair 2. did this but they are all 80+ 3. ok 4. not that good at anything, too old for most groups. gym no one talks with anyone. bjj was the best for this, since its more older and mostly men 5. remote work ruined my mental health
reply

	
ecshafer 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

As far as 2 goes: As far as churches go. The type of church matters a lot. If you go to a Universalist Unitarian, or progressive Lutheran Church, yeah itll probably be 80+. Evangelical/Baptist, Latter Day Saints, Orthodox, Catholic (more traditional parishes) all are significantly younger. The more conservative the denomination the younger the congregation. The more liberal, the older they are. With conservative/liberal being adherence to scripture. This also tracks to Judaism, with Reformed Synagogues being much older than Orthodox. I am not sure and haven't seen numbers of Islam, Buddhism, etc. i the US.
For 4: You don't really have to be good for like a rec league kickball, or beer league golf. Gyms are better if youre doing classes though I think, like BJJ or wrestling.

reply

	
UncleOxidant 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

> The more liberal, the older they are. With conservative/liberal being adherence to scripture... The more liberal, the older they are. With conservative/liberal being adherence to scripture.
And yet many young Evangelicals have deconstructed and dropped out of those conservative congregations over the last 20 years or so. They couldn't bridge the cognitive gap between the conservative political stance of their church and what they read in the bible.

reply

	
throwaway2037 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

    > gym no one talks with anyone
My experience is similar. I think there is a combination of "some gyms are more social" and "some people are good at breaking the ice with strangers". On social media, I frequently hear people say stuff like: "Oh yeah, I have a bunch of friends at the gym." I am not doubting their story, but it doesn't happen to me.
    > remote work ruined my mental health
I'm sorry to hear it. I'm not here to start a holy war about remote work. Can you share some details? For me, remote work has me very quickly "falling apart" -- showering at 2PM or not at all. Going to the office forces some structure into my life and everything else flows from that. To be clear: I understand that a lot of people love remote work.
reply

	
mystifyingpoi 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

> "Oh yeah, I have a bunch of friends at the gym."
Their definition of "a friend" can wildly vary from yours. Especially if such relationship is cultivated only at the gym. I'd hardly call it "friendship".

reply

	
theshackleford 39 minutes ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Remote work has allowed me to build the structure I need to function and perform at a high level. I have severe ADHD and do not fit well into conventional office environments, not because I lack capability, but because my work is most effective when done on my own terms and schedule. I've worked remotely on and off for most of my life (I grew up on a farm, so "working from home" was already quite natural to me.)
This is also colored a little by the fact that remote work is no longer really just an optional for me. Due to a spinal cord injury, I need flexibility to manage just ongoing existence, rehabilitation, and frequent medical appointments. An in-office role simply isn’t compatible with those realities, though the most recent surgeries do make it more viable than it was even twelve months ago.

I’m fortunate to work for a remote organisation that recognises this arrangement as mutually beneficial: I’m able to do my best work, and they get the full value of my expertise.

With all of that being said, I know people whom are far more aligned with you. Remote work is not particuarly beneficial for them, they indeed need an externally inforced structure and so would be best (and happiest) in office. I would never tell them otherwise and nor would they do the same to me.

I am thankful for the most part that many (though not all) of us somewhat have the ability to work in the way in which is best for us (and those employing us.)

reply

	
diyseguy 2 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

I see this as quite a problem in the US. The default place a lonely person has to go is usually a church - where you can expect a modicum, possibly even a seeming profusion, of welcome. This is their hook. They provide automatic acceptance - of sorts. This is also how the right wing fascist regime convinced people to let Trump take over the country - propaganda through the churches.
The only other options people hear about are 'join a club.' Interesting clubs aren't that easy to find. Hanging out at the local pub has obvious downsides, though I guess it sorta works in some countries.

We need more ways for people to casually meet others that aren't trying to manipulate you or program you with religious doctrine...

reply

	
huhkerrf 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

> where you can expect a modicum, possibly even a seeming profusion, of welcome. This is their hook.
Do you think that, possibly, they're really just happy to see you?

reply

	
diyseguy 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

Sure, the way cult members are happy to greet new recruits. It's very insincere. If you have a real issue and you want to talk to someone - you are very likely to hear something like: "Well, pray to Jesus dear, only he can help you." In other words, if you actually need any support - go home and pray about it - don't expect real connection with people. The only connection comes through the imaginary friends they encourage you to divert all your attention and problems to...
reply

	
dyauspitr 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

I think part of the problem is the stuff you’re suggesting. I think everyday life needs to happen organically and if everything is scheduled and regimented and needs to be planned for, it’s very hard for the vast majority of people to actually accomplish. In the past the way, this worked was you went to church which was societally and peer enforced. People need to have marriages that last a lifetime. It’s my opinion that marriages that are a partnership without any sort of hierarchy like we had in the past are essentially doomed to fail except in a small percentage of cases. You need to have kids with stable homes that can go out on the street and be outside all day without fear of crime. Extended families need to live close to each other so there are a lot of folks raising kids and approaching life’s every day problems together. You need to shut off indoor sources of entertainment like social media and video gaming. You need to have a solid education system that is factual and science based, and only lets kids get through on the basis of meritocracy so they can be good informed citizens, and not vote for populist nonsense like we currently have. In a nutshell, what I’m trying to say is people cannot act on what’s best for them but society can put enough peer pressure on everyone for everyone’s good. This might be very hard to listen to in an individualistic society like ours and I don’t even know if I would want to live in this society, but I believe that if that’s the only option, everyone is better off.
reply

	
toomuchtodo 6 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Intentionally choose community and the effort it takes to build and cultivate it [1] [2] [3] [4] [5]. People are work, but you cannot live without community [6].
[1] https://web.archive.org/web/20250212233145/https://www.hhs.g...

[1] https://thepeoplescommunity.substack.com/

[3] https://www.tiktok.com/@amandalitman/video/75927501854034854...

[4] https://boingboing.net/2015/12/21/a-survivalist-on-why-you-s...

[5] https://boingboing.net/2008/07/13/postapocalypse-witho.html

[6] How A Decline In Churchgoing Led To A Rise In ‘Deaths Of Despair’ - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=46408406 - December 2025 (2 comments)

reply

	
publicdebates 5 hours ago | parent | next [18 more]

	
zahlman 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

I'd like to assert here that "community" can exist online as well. It's not just people staying indoors; it's about how they interact with what others write and whether they even care that another person wrote it. It's about things like coming to recognize usernames and build trust.
Of course, LLM generated content threatens that, so things have gotten worse.

reply

	
hexbin010 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

A poor facsimile of community perhaps, at best
reply

	
bherms 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

All of the replies so far are suggesting ideas for an individual but seem to be missing the real crux of the matter...
Yes, you'll be less lonely if you join a group, get out of your house, etc... But how do we actively incentivize that? Social media and whatnot have hundreds of thousands of people working around the clock to find ways to suck you in and monopolize your time.

While "everyone should recognize the problem and then take steps to solve it for themselves" is the obvious solution, it's also not practical to just have everyone collectively decide they need to get out more without SOME sort of fundamental change in our society/incentives/etc

reply

	
kubb 46 minutes ago | parent | next [–]

I agree with this, and I think we're partly conditioned to think this way. We (think we) can change ourselves, but we (believe we) can't change the world. I think it's OK to think bigger.
To make friends, people need a place to meet, to have time and means to be there, and a reason to go there semi-regularly. A lot of the design of society completely ignores these needs. These are solvable problems.

reply

	
peterldowns 51 minutes ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> But how do we actively incentivize that?
Is immediately and completely solving the problem not a good enough incentive? If you go outside and interact, you will be much less lonely.

There is no barrier! You don't need to overthink this. Walkable cities third spaces etc., all great — but literally just go out and interact with people you can do it today many people do it to great success!

reply

	
bherms 47 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

You're completely missing the point. The problem is people aren't collectively incentivized to do so. Individually someone can decide "oh wow, I'm lonely, I should get out more", but collectively there's nothing incentivizing everyone to do it, or even notice it's an issue. If there were, we wouldn't be in this situation.
---

"How do we solve the obesity problem?" "Well people should just work out."

Obviously, that would solve it, but they're distinctly not doing that, which is why we're talking about a broader solution to actually get people to work out.

reply

	
peterldowns 36 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

> The problem is people aren't collectively incentivized to do so.
Yes, we are — please believe me that a LOT of people go out into the world and interact with each other. Doing so is extremely heavily incentivized by all of the wonderful and beautiful things that happen in the world all the time, both quotidian and sublime.

There is critical mass!

reply

	
bherms 24 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

So then I guess it seems like you're rejecting the premise then that there's a loneliness epidemic?
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loneliness_epidemic

I get what you're saying -- I leave my house more than most. But I think it's pretty clear we're trending away from that being the default.

reply

	
nicbou 16 minutes ago | parent | prev | next [–]

You can lead a horse to water but you can't make it drink
reply

	
causal 2 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Yeah, lots of "change your habits" type responses that won't change the reason we're here.
reply

	
gulugawa 14 minutes ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Drive up demand for third places where people can meet new friends.
reply

	
rustystump 1 hour ago | parent | prev | next [–]

This is pretty spot on. It is like telling deug addicts to stop buying legal and unregulated drugs. Never gonna work.
Real change will require enforced regulation on the methods and tactics social media is allowed to use. Things like notification limits, rules on gamification, feed transparency, and more.

In the states this will never happen. The corporations own the rules.

reply

	
csours 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I don't have a full answer, but a couple thoughts:
1. Volunteer. Somewhere, anywhere, for a good cause, for a selfish cause. Somebody will be happy to see you.

2. Stop trolling ourselves. As far as I can tell, all of the mass social media is trending sharply towards being a 100% troll mill. The things people say on social media do not reflect genuine beliefs of any significant percentage of the population, but if we continue to use social media this way, it will.

Disengage from all of the trolls, including and especially the ones on your "own side".

reply

	
rootusrootus 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

> the mass social media is trending sharply towards being a 100% troll mill
I agree. It's one reason I still come to HN and it's one of the few places I bother to comment (and the only place with more than a few dozen users). The moderation and community culture against trolling makes it a generally positive experience. I do still need breaks sometimes, though, for a few months at a time.

I'd love an online community where everyone was having discussions only in good faith. Zero trolling. I can dream.

reply

	
9rx 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

> I'd love an online community where everyone was having discussions only in good faith.
That's already readily available outside. The whole appeal of online 'communities' is that it is not that.

reply

	
rootusrootus 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

The appeal of an online community is having members who participate in bad faith? That's an angle I hadn't expected.
reply

	
9rx 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

Sure. Outside already satisfies good faith discussion. There is nothing gained in duplicating the exact same thing online. Use the right tool for the job, as they say. Online discussion is a compelling in its own right because you can stop being you and take on someone else's persona to try and discuss from their vantage point. This gives opportunity to understand another side of the story in an environment that provides the necessary feedback to validate that you actually understand another side. Too often people think they understand other angles, but one will also want validation, which online discussion provides. More often than not you'll realize that you actually didn't understand it at all, so it is a valuable exercise.
reply

	
nathan_compton 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> Stop trolling ourselves
This is so tough, though, because the things happening in the world really, genuinely, do matter and its very hard to realize that our passive emotional reaction to them is not meaningful, probably actively bad for us. If I could snap my fingers and do one thing, I'd obliterate social media from the face of the earth.

reply

	
s1mon 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

I would also argue that even people who I like a lot and have known for many years can be very different "people" online than in person. It's sometimes shocking the dichotomy. I try to remind myself and others to ignore some of the online weirdness and focus on the in person interaction.
reply

	
fatbird 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Whatever else you think of Bluesky, it's a place where trolling and doomerism are rejected. The nuclear block (and a culture of block, don't engage) does wonders for denying actual trolls an audience, and secondarily for permitting people to do the virtual equivalent of walking away from someone who's behaving badly. In particular, doomerism about Trump is minimized there the same way.
reply

	
mullingitover 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

> So they sit on social media all day when they're not at work or school. How can we solve this?
The naive solution is to place blame on the people who are influenced by the most advanced behavior modification schemes ever devised by humans. Kinda like how the plastic producers will push recycling, knowing they can shift blame for the pollution away from their production of the pollution, because people love blaming. You'll see commenters here telling us that the answer is for people to pull themselves up by their bootstraps, get out, get involved in their communities under their own willpower. These ideas are doomed from the outset.

The real solution is already being enacted in a number of US states and countries[1]: legally restricting access to the poison, rather than blaming the people who are at the mercy of finely honed instruments of behavior modification when they're unable to stop drinking it under their own willpower.

[1] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_media_age_verification_...

reply

	
bethekidyouwant 3 hours ago | parent | next [–]

Taking something away by force is not the way to encourage someone to do something else. This is carrot or stick mentality. The city added benches and chairs in all the parks to improve the quality of our third spaces, as an example of social infrastructure.
reply

	
mullingitover 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Social infrastructure is great! However, if you have a crack epidemic adding some benches isn't going to change anything.
reply

	
kevin061 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I don't think this will ever be resolved.
It's a twofold problem, I believe. People are lonely because of fear of rejection and also actively avoid new people out of caution and high standards.

So two people who are otherwise lonely will make no effort to connect.

I think social networks have done a tremendous amount of damage to our collective psyche. Because on the web, you can single-click permanently block someone and never see them again. If you are admin of a group this person is in, you can also ban this person and prevent them from interacting with members of the group (in the group, that is, you cannot control private messages, but by banning someone from a community you are effectively isolating them), and I think we haven't considered how much power we are giving to random Reddit mods due to this.

reply

	
LorenPechtel 2 hours ago | parent | next [–]

I do believe high standards are behind a lot of the dating issues. Dating pools are so large that people hold out for the right combination of the things they find desirable--except they're never going to find that because they don't have exactly the right combination to attract that "perfect" match.
reply

	
CrimsonCape 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

I can't help but think that in 1910, both the concept of "fear of rejection" and "high standards" would have made no sense to people at the time. Yet I would agree that they are valid concepts today. We have to explore why these two concepts exist and why they did not exist in 1910. It seems valid to call them side effects of something bigger, what the bigger is I don't know. I don't see how society can address these two issues without addressing the other issues that lead to the existence of these.
reply

	
OkayPhysicist 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

I'm not sure why you believe that "high standards" and "fear of rejection" didn't exist a hundred years ago. Think Gatsby, from the Great Gatsby (published 1925): dude longed for human connection (hence throwing massive parties), but was terrified of being outed as not belonging to the social strata he found himself in. That's fear of rejection. People being to good for others is basis of the class system, and that predates written history.
reply

	
StevePerkins 2 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Is that REALLY a lot of power, though? Reddit is quasi-anonymous, how "isolated" are you when you can create a different account in seconds?
reply

	
kevin061 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

When I said "Reddit mods" I didn't mean literally Reddit, but the overzealous nature of full-time Internet moderators with too much free time.
Regardless ban evasion is always forbidden so if you slip up or get caught because of the way you type or whatever, you will be banned again.

reply

	
blibble 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

> Regardless ban evasion is always forbidden so if you slip up pr get caught because of the way you type or whatever, you will be banned again.
so you create another account?

they don't even do IP bans, (er, so I hear)

reply

	
SchemaLoad 21 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Reddit doesn't do hard IP bans, but they do a lot of fingerprinting to link alt accounts together and will ban them all. You can get around it but you have to be pretty careful, wiping cookies on all your devices, signing up from a new IP, never logging in to the old accounts again, etc.
reply

	
yesitcan 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

And if they do, there’s VPN
reply

	
dontwannahearit 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Not for everyone but if you can, get a dog. Dogs are icebreakers. People like to meet a cute dog. They won't know your name at first but you will be "Fido's Dad" or "Dave's Mom". Other dog owners will greet you and so long as your dogs don't hate each other you already have something in common.
A dog gives you a reason to be wherever you want to be - take a walk around the neighborhood or to the park. You're not a rando taking a walk for mysterious and possible nefarious purposes, you're walking the dog.

But for for goodness sake, pick up after the pooch. If you can wipe your own arse you can pick up a dog turd with a plastic bag.

reply

	
wbobeirne 2 hours ago | parent | next [–]

Anecdotally, I've had a lot of people in my life recede after getting pets. They're an excellent excuse to say no to things that you might otherwise do, because you need to get home and take care of the pet or you can't find a sitter to go on a trip etc.
Not generalizing to all people, but I think for some a pet can reinforce anti-social tendencies.

reply

	
alecco 1 hour ago | parent | prev | next [–]

But that's like befriending others through the kids. Those usually are very shallow relationships. If they suddenly stop seeing you they wouldn't even check if you are OK or what happened. I guess it's better than nothing but that's not for me.
reply

	
OkayPhysicist 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

Having many shallow relationships is the first (well, second) step towards having a few deeper ones. You can't befriend people you never meet, and people find it extremely offputting for someone they don't know to immediately try to be their best friend.
reply

	
alecco 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

I've never, ever seen a shallow friendship turn into a deep friendship. OTOH you might meet someone to date.
reply

	
jungturk 7 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Plenty of my former coworkers have evolved into lifelong substantial friendships.
What started with smalltalk evolved into conversations over lunch which then afforded after work socializing which then led to actively scheduling time for shared interests. All of those provided ample opportunity to learn almost everything about that person and open the door to a deep friendship when mutually desired.

reply

	
OkayPhysicist 48 minutes ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Have you never made a deep friendship? How else would anybody make deep friendships? First you do things that let you meet people, then you make acquaintances, then you make setting-specific friends (work friends, gym buddies, etc), then you start inviting/being invited to do things that aren't based around that shared setting, and then you have friendships.
Either that or your definition of deep friendship is substantially off.

reply

	
alecco 21 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Most of my deep friendships were through friends and family. A handful at work/school. And it is the same way for most people I know. But I'm not American, so that's that.
reply

	
OkayPhysicist 17 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Making friends through work and school are pretty much exactly what I described. You go to a place with people, you meet a lot of people, and some of the shallow acquaintances end up becoming long term friends.
reply

	
hexbin010 1 hour ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> You're not a rando taking a walk for mysterious and possible nefarious purposes
Good god, where do you live where people think like that?

reply

	
ppeetteerr 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

The US is structured to promote loneliness.
If you want to fix it:

- More free public spaces (parks with benches, squares)

- More free public events and activities (free concerts, art installations, plays)

- Greater physical proximity (it's hard to make eye contact if everyone drives)

- Wealth distribution (create a society where one's value is not based on their net worth)

- Encourage days off for community service

In other words, provide socially-funded incentives for people to be close to one another physically and remove income as a measure of value.

reply

	
kruffalon 1 hour ago | parent | next [–]

Unionize! Unionize! Unionize!
So much of the pressure comes from horrendous working conditions from top to bottom.

And as a secondary effect unions require meetings and hopefully cross organising with other unions having different people in them.

When we get better working conditions, we will have more time to meet other people rather than to sit exhausted with our phones having all the parasocial relationships that drain our social batteries without really connecting with a real person.

reply

	
SchemaLoad 28 minutes ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Seen some of this happening in Melbourne, Australia, and it's almost suffering from too much success. Recently a free concert had to be canceled because tens of thousands of people showed up and they couldn't handle the numbers safely.
Very happy to see at least something is being tried to reverse the damage from covid.

reply

	
tag_coder 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

If you identify with that problem, and you want to solve it, and you are open to advice...
Go to church, and be intentional to connect. Find a bible study, fellowship group, volunteer opportunity, or prayer meeting. Sit at church on Sunday with somebody from the bible study. Get lunch with one of those people. Find somebody at church who shares a hobby. Do your hobby together.

You have to put in the effort. Growth is uncomfortable. Real connection takes time.

Maybe you find something similar in other spaces, but I am certain you can find it in church.

reply

	
amradio1989 20 minutes ago | prev | next [–]

Its mostly social anxiety. Which makes sense. Children have progressively been raised more and more on screens and devices. Teenagers rely more and more on technology to solve problems. Adults do too. No one has to interact anymore, which means many people no longer know how. Cue the anxiety.
In previous generations, you had to interact with others to get anything done at all. Kids had to play with kids, parents had to talk to the postman, the milkman, the newspaper boy, the telephone operator, the neighbors, you name it. It was a necessity for a functional life, so people did it.

reply

	
monkeyboykin 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I was addicted to weed from ages 15-23. I have clinical depression and anxiety/OCD (now medicated and stable). I basically isolated and got stuck in a loop of believing I was broken and a bad person. When I committed to quitting I joined addiction recovery groups and asked for help instead of trying to do it alone. I still rely on the wisdom I gained in AA/MA. Trust God, clean house, help others, go do something when you are in danger of wallowing in self pity. 4 years later, I have a few real friends and many acquaintances. I swing dance and volunteer. I work in a semi-social office. Life is good. I still get paranoid thoughts, but they don't own or define me. I wish the best to all the lonely programmers and alienated people out there.
reply

	
pvelagal 20 minutes ago | prev | next [–]

Kids make friends pretty easily when they go to school and later college. Only after graduating college it becomes very hard to make friends.
So one solution is have folks attend classes in schools and universities or even local libraries during weekends. Classes specifically designed for different age groups - 30s, 40s, 50s etc. Classes related music, personal finance, investing, art, sports, cooking etc

Govt should offer tax breaks for attending these classes. That would attract a lot of people.

reply

	
peterspath 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Go to church.
Data from various studies, including those from academic institutions and public health organisations, supports the idea that regular church attendance helps reduce loneliness by fostering social connections, support networks, and a sense of community.

1. https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3551208/

2. https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/human-flourishing/20...

3. https://hrbopenresearch.org/articles/7-76

4. https://www.cardus.ca/research/health/reports/social-isolati...

5. there are plenty more...

also if you allow anecdotal data:

I have been going to a church half a year now, and the sense of community is amazing, made new friends and know more people I could dream of. So there is a way, there is a light. Never felt lonely again since.

reply

	
Yoric 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

For what it's worth, I tried that a few years ago. It worked for a while. Then I realized that my church relationships were paper thin and that I'd be forgotten the day I stopped coming and/or I started showing that I didn't really believe in what was preached.
Got better connections through improv acting and role-playing game.

YMMV

reply

	
OkayPhysicist 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I'm no fan of religion, but the situation you described is true for pretty much all social hobbies. It's just one of the early steps in making friends. First you do stuff, then you meet people through that stuff forming acquaintances. Then you spend some time forming setting-specific friendships. It's fine to have lots of these, but the next step is to break out of that specific setting. Starting with immediate invitations to adjacent events ("Hey, want to grab dinner after our workout?", "Want to grab lunch after church?", "Hey, want to hit the bar after work?"). Once you have a habit of doing that, you can escalate to invitations to non-adjacent events. ("Want to go to a concert this weekend?"). Do that ever 1-2 months, and you've got a general friend.
reply

	
SchemaLoad 19 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

The problem is you can't really just go to church to make friends without at all believing or supporting the rest of it. Similarly you couldn't go to a hobby group while entirely disliking the hobby, hoping to just get friends out of it and leave.
reply

	
publicdebates 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

This has been my experience with meeting people at churches, too.
They always seem like they're only talking to you either to get you to become a member or to satisfy their own conscience, but never because of you.

And it's been proven to me too many times. No thanks, not trying that again.

reply

	
cosmic_cheese 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

As someone whose childhood included attendance to various churches, this mostly reflects my experience. That's not to say that it can't or won't produce deep connections, but it is in my estimation more unlikely than not, particularly if there's anything about oneself that the church doesn't agree with or if commitment to that particular denomination hasn't been established.
Personally speaking I find the need to conform to the church's norms/expectations to not be ostracized at minimum chafing and in the worst case stifling. The third place and social aspects can be nice but being told how to live and exist isn't.

reply

	
rootusrootus 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I've entertained the idea of going to church. My understanding is that a non-trivial number of people going to Unitarian Universalist churches are openly atheist and completely comfortable with that. So the preaching ends up being more about general good community ideas and less about dogma.
I have not decided yet that it is a good fit, but I am definitely thinking that I should foster some community connections outside of my own family.

reply

	
StevePerkins 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I was involved in a UU church for a few years. It's a weird organization, and very unstable, with another revolution sweeping in new leadership (and completely new culture) every 5 to 10 years.
When I first started going, it was VERY open to atheists and secular humanists. New leadership sweeps in, and there's a mandate to focus more on "worship" and other religious jargon... and let the atheists know that while they can be fellow travelers on some of the social justice stuff, they're not really in the fold.

Last I heard, that leadership wave had themselves been swept out under controversial circumstances. But by then I was long gone.

I could never really get a straight answer on WHAT we were supposed to be "worshipping", given that UU's don't profess faith in any any particular deity or pantheistic concept, etc. I finally reached the conclusion that we were supposed to just worship the leadership's political beliefs, and not think too much or ask questions. In fairness, maybe that DOES make it a real church?

reply

	
publicdebates 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Reminds me of a non-alcoholic beer.
reply

	
JPC21 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

I can only commend this, but people should be aware that not every church is equally welcoming. But usually every town has at least one that is!
reply

	
Retric 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

That’s possibly useful on an individual level, but not a solution. If existing institutions didn’t solve loneliness yet they aren’t going to without changing something.
Promoting church attendance might help, but so would any number of group activities the issue is why that stuff is in decline not that stuff not working.

reply

	
bogwog 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

* Religion has been used, is currently being used, and will always be used to facilitate and encourage the murder/death/suffering/abuse/exploitation of others
* My Little Pony is a children's cartoon that attracts creepy adults with questionable fetishes who like to wear ugly costumes in public and buy anthropomorphic sex dolls

I think if I *had* to pick one of those works of fiction to pretend to be a fan of just to get other people to talk to me, I'd rather deal with the smelly weirdos in the MLP fandom than any of the dangerous zealots in the <insert religious book here> fandom. (MLP is a joke example, but obviously there are way more options out there to find a community)

reply

	
ppeetteerr 2 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Would be great if you didn't need to believe in a supernatural being.
reply

	
jayd16 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

"Just join a group"
The whole point is that they're not doing that, not that they can't or that its really hard to do.

reply

	
LorenPechtel 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

The problem is that being present in a group isn't the same thing as being part of it socially.
reply

	
zahlman 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> supports the idea that regular church attendance helps reduce loneliness by fostering social connections, support networks, and a sense of community.
Correlation does not establish causation. Regular church attendance dominantly occurs among people who have shared values (clustered around what the church teaches); that doesn't imply that an outsider can just choose to fit in.

reply

	
staticman2 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Unless you grew up surrounded by nonbelievers I'm guessing half a year ago wasn't the first time you've ever been to a church and there's a little more to this anecdote.
reply

	
nkrisc 2 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Sounds good, but I would have a hard time pretending to take it seriously. I wouldn’t want to lie to them.
reply

	
huhkerrf 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

You don't have to be a believer to go to church. Have an open mind, don't belittle it to the people there just like you wouldn't belittle someone's interior decorating who invited you into their home, and don't hog all of the potato salad at the post-service lunch, and you'll be okay.
reply

	
LorenPechtel 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

The problem with this answer, as with so much about various activities is that it selects for those who can.
reply

	
nitwit005 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

This is "lie to join a group" for people who don't believe, and the dishonesty has negative effects on people as well.
reply

	
vlod 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

I once shard a flat/apartment with a female social butterfly. She once gave me some great advice, which is to NEVER turn down an invitation.
Going out and trying to be comfortable in non-ideal situations (i.e. you know hardly anyone there) is a skill you can learn. I often think it's probably like sales cold calling. After a while you develop calluses.

reply

	
ge96 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Somewhat a tangent response
I have a fear of crowds and bums. Not where I'm paralyzed/medicated but one thing I'm trying to do is go downtown and do street photography. I wonder how do I say no to a stranger asking me for money. Or fear of getting robbed. It's not like my camera gear is that expensive but yeah. This would push me to get out there more as I've lived in the same place for 10 yrs and I haven't really explored/gone around much. Other than when I did Uber Eats, I would go all over the place. I would get wasted/drink at bars but end up with nothing end of the day, temporary day-long friends.

Funny I was at the gym yesterday, guy said hello to me, as a guy that keeps to himself usually (unless around friends) I gave him a bad look (not on purpose) and then I responded. I'll say hello next time I see him.

Yeah for me it's just fear and lack of exposure. I do make a lot of "work friends" go on walks. But yeah real friends I think I have 4 or 5 lifelong real friends. Women nothing, haven't been laid in like 12 years pretty said to say. Unfortunately it's something I value myself like "I'm a loser by not getting laid". Even though rest of my life is good, 2BR apt, sporty car, six-fig job, but yeah. It's my social awkardness, but I lift/improve myself, cutting down on weight I want abs. Idk I'm not going after women anymore either just trying to live life now, do shit, get out of debt, get out of 9-5, mental freedom.

It's funny if it's guys I'm very "charismatic" like I can be "everyone's friend" which doesn't work out due to conflicting interest. To that end it's really about taking an active interest in the other person, engaging them, asking them questions and remembering.

My thing with women is I don't get along with them like a guy (where I don't want anything from them physically). If they're not attractive then it's easier to talk to them but yeah, I guess that comes from a desperation mindset.

reply

	
soulofmischief 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

Hear me out. Its not just social awkwardness. You're experiencing class boundaries and do not seem to have the right mentality to bridge the gap.
First, you call homeless people bums, which sets the stage for how you see and treat them.

I'm an excellent engineer, but I was abused and impoverished as a child, homeless as a teenager. During my 20s, I started a few companies but my savings have been continually depleted taking care of family members. I don't have a sports car or a big bank account, or nice cameras. When I see a stranger or homeless person, I smile and wave. I keep cash on me so that I always have some to give out. I buy people lunch and sit on the curb eating with them and attempting to understand them. I learn the names of my local homeless folk and ingratiate myself in the community. I've moved to a few cities so I've had the opportunity to do this a few times.

I don't do this because I lack social anxiety; I sometimes have extreme agoraphobia, to the point that I have to hype myself up for hours just to go to the grocery store, and I have to wear noise-cancelling headphones to reduce the amount of stimulation. I have PTSD. I'm an extreme introvert. A hermit at times.

But what saves me is the philosophical understanding that I have a duty to the social contract. That empathy and direct aid are nonnegotiable parts of being human. I've been homeless and I know what it's like to be truly hopeless and live a life of uncertainty, fear and hunger.

You need to bridge that gap. Class-induced anxiety is real and I acknowledge that it's probably difficult, but it's not an excuse. You sound like you're in a position to change someone's life. Taking those steps might change your own life.

reply

	
wijwp 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

> I buy people lunch and sit on the curb eating with them and attempting to understand them.
I clearly don't have the same people on the street as you do. You should not be just sitting down and having lunch with people who are having daily psychotic breaks or are otherwise aggressive. You can't have a conversation with someone who is constantly riding the line of ODing. I have a regular I see who runs around in the road screaming at cars and people.

The very incomplete "down on their luck" view of homelessness is killing progress in my city.

reply

	
soulofmischief 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I have lived in many metropolitan areas and have seen the gamut of homelessness. As I mentioned in a downline comment, the trick is to ignore the people who are not in a position to receive help, and actively seek those who are in such a position. I am not suggesting walking up to random homeless folk in San Francisco who are tweaking out and hanging out with them. I am not suggesting to risk your safety by approaching the first person you see. You live in your area; study it, pay attention, and over time you'll start seeing some familiar faces. This has worked for me in New Orleans, it worked for me in Texas and worked for me in California.
So I'm willing to bet that my understanding of homelessness is more nuanced/holistic than even yours. I have been homeless. Have you?

What progress do you feel is being hindered by a collective display of compassion?

reply

	
ge96 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

I get it, but $5 to change someone's life?
It's funny there was a moment I was at a bus station, somebody asked me for money and I dumped all the coins I had in my wallet in their hand for future bus rides. And some lady comes up to me jokingly like "you handing money out? what about me".

But yeah I think I should just give the money out, I think aside from the guy at the red light that's there almost everyday when it's warm, it's rare I encounter somebody personally. Until I go into the city.

reply

	
soulofmischief 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Buy someone new clothes. A sleeping bag. Utensils. A library card or bus pass. If it has to be cash, you don't have to stop at $5. I sometimes give out tens and twenties. Obviously at a place like California your altruism can be spread pretty thin; just ignore the people who are more difficult / less appreciative. Find someone who is appreciative. Get to know them and find out what is holding them back. Maybe you can't help, maybe you can. I've had people tell me I've made their day, their week, their year.
reply

	
ge96 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

It's that thing though I'm pretty sure I was scammed by this couple at a gas station asking me for "gas money" even though they wanted cash then the lady said "your mother raised a good boy" lmao.
To me this is a gov problem not an individual problem. Yeah if someone was dying in front of me I would try to help them. But now I gotta go to a store and buy em a tent and what not? I guess I am an asshole. Also read up "do you give money to homeless" on reddit. Almost all of the answers are no.

I have to go there and face my fear. See if I do get assaulted, I'm a 6ft buff dude so I don't think so but I'm also not a trained fighter. I just hate this fear, that normal people like living in NYC deal with on a daily basis.

Getting jumped is real though, I've been jumped before by a group.

Might as well just give the $5 though and move on with my life.

Back to women, I have negative traits as demonstrated above, indecisiveness and low self-esteem/caring about what other people think of me too much.

All this stuff is stupid, "I'm a good person because it's what people think you should do" give money to a non-taxed church, politicians, etc... then the individual person not giving a dollar to a homeless person is a bad guy.

reply

	
soulofmischief 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

There's risk to helping people out.
I've been fucked over plenty times, sometimes to the tune of 5 digits. Once even cost me my home, and I found myself homeless again for a while.

A good friend of mine once gave someone a ride at a gas station, and they led him to a house where another person jumped inside the car with a gun. They held him hostage, tried to force him to do fentanyl at gunpoint, and drove him around to several ATMs so he could empty out his account. They used his vehicle to sell drugs, and held him hostage in a motel room where they were also sex trafficking women. They nearly killed him, and he is lucky to be alive.

I also know others who have been jumped around here and had the shit beaten out of them. For reference, I live in a city frequently cited as a "murder capital" of the US. You have to be way more careful out here than in downtown San Francisco. As far as NYC, I imagine it's a mixed bag depending on your area. I'm not suggesting naively approaching strangers, I hope it doesn't come across that way.

You aren't an asshole if you don't buy someone a tent, I was suggesting ways to help that have more tangible impact than handing someone a $5 bill which probably just goes towards an addiction. I don't hang around Reddit, so I can't speak for the general callousness of the community, but what I'm suggesting is to go beyond the average, to do more than most would, in reverence of the fact that we're all floating on this lonely space rock together.

As far as women, all I can say is that my girlfriend would be fine with any of those traits, as long as I still maintained a level of compassion.

reply

	
ge96 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

There is also the thought of too many people to help. Like right now there are thousands/millions of people starving is it my fault? Should I empty all of what I have to help them because I'm guilty if I don't. That's what I'm wrestling with granted what we're talking about is not the same thing. Handing somebody $5 and moving on is not that but yeah idk. I guess as a person that keeps giving shit out eg. $100K to my own family, it gets old.
But I will go out there, I'll see what happens. I need to face my fears.

reply

	
soulofmischief 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I hear you. I've had ungrateful family members drive me broke. Compassion is doing the right thing, even when it's scary, or it hurts, or no one is watching, or when people around you misunderstand and demonize you, or they are just plain ungrateful and leave you holding the bag. I admire your willingness to continue grappling with it and finding your own answer.
Regarding women again, are you meeting enough of them? What's the scene like where you live? I don't know what it's like in NYC, but the social/dating scene in my current city just doesn't exist, and I'm watching some of my friends grapple with seriously heartbreaking loneliness.

I don't know what to tell them. I'm dating my high school sweetheart again, but we were broken up for several years, and many of the experiences I had with women during that time were quite traumatic. The rest of them were just not a good fit. I had completely given up on dating altogether, at least for a period of time, and only then did the love of my life find her way back to me. Despite years of extreme loneliness in new cities, I still consider myself lucky and wish I had some actionable advice I could tease from the situation. I've even experimented with building dating apps because this epidemic just scares the shit out of me.

reply

	
ge96 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I'm not in NYC sorry to give that impression. I was mentioning NYC as far as being densely populated, I'm in the midwest. Honestly I don't meet much women outside of work or the occasional girl I run into at a gym. I know the cliche saying "go join a club" meet girls that way. I could see that but it's also possible I like being alone too but yeah it just bothers me that my self-deemed value is whether or not I get laid.
The other problem too today is the fakeness of social media, filters on faces, photos looking like peopel go to beaches all the time/live extravagant lives.

Bars it's like a self-control issue, use drinking for courage then you get too f'd up.

In the midwest but we have a small "city" with "skyscrapers" that I wanted to go into and do photography at.

reply

	
nuancebydefault 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

What I found after many years, is that women (people in general, really) are not attracted to people who try too hard to get attention from them. Going through great lengths tends to result in being labeled as desperate or creepy. Try just to be friendly and talk "with" them and not "to" them, almost as if you are one of them. By doing that often enough, it will feel less awkward. Practice makes perfect. And then one day you feel a click with someone. Just my few cents.
reply

	
ge96 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Yeah that's the cliche saying, let them chase you or don't put on a pedestal. Idk not sure if it's because I was raised by women that I need their approval (no male figure). But I know other people who were in the same situation and aren't like me so it must be a personal choice/way you decide to overcome it.
reply

	
LorenPechtel 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

The basic problem with this is that the ones that are trying too hard are doing so because the standard approach failed.
Maybe you get lucky, but it's not a general solution.

reply

	
nicbou 3 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

What is the standard approach?
I find that being genuine and vulnerable and having no hidden agenda works wonders.

reply

	
fundad 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

I found it uncomfortable as a kid when I saw how my parents handled begging: ignoring it. I remember one time my father saying "that's ok". And I either say "no, sorry" or ignore.
I've heard of kids from cities being given money so they always have something to give a mugger instead of looking like you're holding out, I don't go that far but I remember it to keep perspective.

I recently made an effort to carry cash with me so I can leave tips in cash, still working on that. Would you be open to keeping singles on you to give? You can even give max of one per excursion and then decline or ignore the rest or any combination but maybe having that as a plan can help you feel comfortable. Yes you're training yourself and it's because you deserve the benefits of training.

As for non-bums hello is good, also fist bumps and nodding upwards; that stuff is cool AF and make people so damn happy.

reply

	
ge96 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Yeah it's funny I'll sound like I'm virtue signaling here, I donate. Food groups, NHA, stuff like that. Where I live there's usually a person at a red light waiting to "ambush" you. Same at a grocery store, soon as you exit the door solicitors going "excuse me sir".
But yeah it would be easy to just have a $5 to hand out. It's just you know how many people are there and will it stop there kind of thing. Yeah I sound like an asshole I get it. I also have sent over $100K to my own family in support and I'm -$80K in debt so it's not like I'm hoarding my money or something.

It just annoys me. But sure it'll be easier to just say "here you go" and hand out cash.

reply

	
nicbou 0 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

You have the right but not the obligation to give. The person asking has heard a lot more no's than you could stomache, so one more won't kill them.

	
nemomarx 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

In my experience a few times people will ask for money if they see you giving someone else something, but not that often, and you can shrug through it and say that was your last dollar or something. Keep the interactions short and easy and try to carry the loose bills outside of your wallet so no one can actually see how much you have inside it?
Exactly one time after I did this, a guy asked me to send something to his venmo since I really only had a dollar. Probably my strangest interaction.

reply

	
ge96 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Yeah I'll probably be smart and just empty my wallet except ID and some loose cash. I just don't like it the idea someone coming up to you asking you for money and you're expected to just do it, give it to them. It's funny too as soon as they get what they want or don't get what they want, they're like f you and move on. Ahh well I just wish I didn't care. I'm too soft/care what other people think of me.
It's like points on a website "oh no I got downvoted", there's a thing as being you/not being a conformist

I think I purposefully need to get into a fight you know overcome it, like expect anyone who comes up to me to fight me

I'm gonna stop ranting but it's not like it's hard to get laid, it's just my standards are high like she's gotta be a dime or fit at least. So that means I also have to be fit/good looking which I haven't cared much before as far as good haircut/good clothes. I at least am lucky with my genetics for fitness but I also have not been as cut as I could be. But ultimately I know it's my mind that's f'd.

reply

	
fundad 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

You don't sound like an asshole because you aren't saying bad things about the people who have the least.
It's up to you, you can just, to yourself, write down the words you'll use to write down that you'll ignore them to become more comfortable with your boundaries.

Personally I don't think handing out cash is helpful so it's not about charity it's my advice to pre-plan how you'll respond to be more comfortable than you are in reaction to these situations.

reply

	
ge96 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

It is a quick escape though to be like "here you go" and move on but also opens you up to "that's it?" I've had that happen even when I said "I don't have cash" well I have Venmo I'm like alright... yeah I don't want to have this mindset but also can't be naive too kumbaya.
reply

	
avensec 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Many answers address the question of "how to build community." I like those responses! I also want to contribute to the discussion with an emotional intelligence response. The theory is that "loneliness" can be a symptom of underlying internal factors.
While it is true that loneliness can arise from a lack of community, people, and related factors, for some people, the problem stems from not knowing how to be alone. At its core, the question becomes, "Am I externalizing my world, or internalizing my world?" When you externalize your world, you require something external. We are social creatures, and I do believe we need other people. I'm only suggesting that sometimes people need to look internally first.

Personal anecdote: No amount of community would have helped me feel like I wasn't alone, because I needed the world around me to provide some sense of my self-worth. It felt counterintuitive, but for me, I had to learn to be alone. Only then could I feel like I wasn't alone. It all came down to attachment theory and self-worth.

reply

	
mlmonkey 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

In the past, whenever I felt lonely and hopeless, I jumped into helping others: volunteering, helping an old neighbor garden, help someone move, etc. Helping people gave me a short-term purpose, which eventually let me ride out the low phase of life. YMMV, of course.
reply

	
publicdebates 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

I have noticed that doing the sign leads to some good conversations in which I've helped someone in a small way, and that gave me a nice little dopamine boost. It's also led to about half a dozen genuine friendships over the past few months. I wonder if that's the answer, a sort of meta-solution: organizing this thing I'm doing into something that other people in the same situation can do, as a way of meeting people and getting outside their comfort zone. Like setting up a chess table in public if chess is your thing. But no, there are already public chess tables, and they'd have already done that. I don't know, just thinking out loud.
reply

	
bombcar 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

One key is to keep doing it for awhile - the first day with your sign, you were someone on the road.
The eighth time someone sees you? You're the guy with the sign.

Routine and familiarity is important, and it's very easy to fall into situations where we don't see anyone in our routine so we can't become familiar.

reply

	
R_D_Olivaw 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

This is my go-to strategy as well. When I feel irrepressible bits of loneliness or depression, I just make some food and go out and start handing out to the needy.
Or go for a walk and find people that need a hand. People moving, lifting things, carrying things. Small little acts of being useful and helpful for a moment help.

The feeling will creep back in eventually, but at least for that time I was out and about, it's not.

reply

	
iambateman 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

The first place to look is suburban development.
I wrote an article[0] on Tiny Neighborhoods (aka “Cohousing”) that starts with:

> “I often wonder if the standard approach to housing is the best we can do. About 70% of Americans live in a suburb, which means that this design pattern affects our lives – where we shop, how we eat, who we know – more than any other part of modern life.”

We have been so uncritical of the set of ideas that make suburbia—single family homes, one car per adult, large private yards—even though these play a big role in how people act.

Some people want to address loneliness by making incremental changes. But if the statistics are right and nearly everyone is somewhat lonely, we should expect that the required adjustments feel “drastic” compared to the current norm.

People would be less lonely if they could live in a community of 15-20 families with (1) shared space and (2) shared expectations for working together on their shared space.

[0] https://iambateman.com/tiny

reply

	
SoftTalker 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

I posted on another subthread but I think this is largely an excuse. If you live in a typical suburb you have 15-20 families on your street. You can easily walk next door and chat or just say hello when you see someone outside. It takes initiative, which is the key thing that's missing. You either hide in your house or you get out and be sociable.
reply

	
acuozzo 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

> You can easily walk next door and chat or just say hello when you see someone outside.
I have no problem with socialization and I have an unusually-active social life for a thirty-eight year old married man with three kids, so I clearly don't lack initiative.

With that being said, all of my neighbors are either elderly, shut-ins, or just don't want to be bothered; even the ones with kids.

My wife & I helped organize a Block Party last year and I'm fairly certain it resulted in 0 new friendships for any of the attendees.

What's the solution here? Friendships need to have mutual interest, no?

I think it's a circular problem. Like, my kids don't go outside much because there are no other kids outside to play with.

reply

	
iambateman 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

There's no question that there are 15-20 families within 300 yards of my house. But that group of people absolutely does not have a sense of shared anything but the road.
And the fact is that this is true of the supermajority of suburban streets in the United States.

reply

	
SoftTalker 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I don't disagree but 30 years ago the people in those kinds of neighborhoods did get out and talk to each other, did organize cookouts and other gatherings, and in general were sociable neighbors. The people changed.
reply

	
AlecSchueler 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

If you have young boys in your life then teach them that it's ok to feel and express their emotions, and as they get older that their sexual self need not be frightening and that sex can exist outside of narratives of domination.
reply

	
zahlman 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

This requires them to have spaces where they can express themselves sexually without the fear that male sexuality will be judged as inherently violent or oppressive.
I've lost count of the times I've seen women praised while men were castigated, in the same space, for expressing any kind of honest sexual preference.

reply

	
AlecSchueler 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Yes, that's the issue I'm highlighting. We have to teach the next generation differently. Be the safe space
reply

	
Melonai 2 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

It's an annoyingly double-edged issue, and one that I believe neither side of the political spectrum (speaking in very broad strokes here) has addressed well at all.
Though I usually consider myself progressive (to an annoying degree to some), the progressive "answer" to young men right now on how to find friends and partners is essentially something like:

  > You should just be yourself!

  > But, if you aren't practically perfect and even slightly express your social and physical needs you are a monster.

  > But, even if you are perfect, we reserve the right to hate you based on experiences with other people of your gender, or because of your privilege, even though you probably have never felt it, and we're also allowed to make fun of you because of said privilege, since making fun of you is "punching up".

  > Also, you also should accept that you will *always* be considered a threat to half the population due to how you were born, and if you don't accept that or even try to prove the opposite, that makes you even more dangerous.

  > If you aren't happy with this you are an incel, and don't even mention the word "misandry", that's not a thing. The only way to change this is to either be gay or transition into a woman.
Obviously I'm employing a bit of hyperbole for emphasis and this is also me trying to empathize with what it's like being a boy right now despite lacking first-hand experience. Luckily, most women do not feel this way about men, but I've heard all of this said by my friends at one time or another (and I might have said something similar myself during my weaker moments, when I was upset).
Meanwhile the hardliners on the opposite side of the spectrum espouse the idea that actually men should be evil because it's manly. That women are lesser to them and that patriarchy is super cool actually. See Andrew Tate as an example, who has captured the ears of millions of teenage boys around the world. At first it's hard to comprehend why his ideology speaks to them, but you have to remember that most of them are just entering the time of their life where they have to figure themselves out, where they have to, for the first time in their life, find friendship, respect and companionship on their own outside of the family or the playground. And after all, everyone wants to be loved and respected in some way, and Andrew Tate offers them an answer: You can be an asshole and still be loved and respected, while the leftie answer tells them that you can be as perfect as you like, but you probably still won't be loved and respected, and if you fuck up, don't expect any grace.

And now the question is what should society actually do so that both young men and young women can find a harmonious place in it? I think really the only answer is to stop playing the blame game, stop trying to make one side the constant bad guy and scapegoat, try to comprehend that we are all equally human, and that whatever a person's gender is doesn't give you the right to be shitty to them. I don't know, maybe this is simply another utopian idea, of men and women living together in perfect unison, never being mean to each other. I think we should still strive to achieve some sort of balance, but sadly I don't really see an easy answer to this.

Sorry for this long rant, I've wanted to put this into words for a while. Occasionally I think about how bad it must be being a teenage boy right now, the thought scares me and I feel lucky not being one. Every time I read another woman saying that she's afraid of every man on the street walking in proximity to her, and every time it's dark out and I hear a man behind me and I get physically afraid, I think, what if I was a man and she was afraid for her life because of me? Just because I exist in the space next to her? Just because of a random coin-flip during my conception? And it feels awful. I don't want anyone to go through that.

reply

	
zahlman 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

My experience suggests that Tate is talked about far more (like, orders of magnitude) than actually directly heard (unless you count fair-use clips in attempts at critique). The strongest advocates I've seen for the rights and well-being of men in general, and young men in the dating world in particular, have come from across the political spectrum in other regards, including literal socialists.
Otherwise I agree with you.

reply

	
bell-cot 1 hour ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Sadly (allowing for some hyperbole) yes.
I blame the on-line attention economy - which always rewards yet-more-extreme reactions, positions, and performative "virtues". But attaches zero value to actual pro-social behavior.

reply

	
appplication 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> that their sexual self need not be frightening and that sex can exist outside of narratives of domination
This makes a ton of sense but the language needs so much work here to be digested into a real conversation by your average parent, let alone preteen/teenager.

reply

	
olalonde 1 hour ago | parent | prev | next [–]

I'm not sure how you arrived at that conclusion. The loneliness epidemic is relatively recent, and unless I'm misunderstanding you, this isn't something young boys were taught in the past.
reply

	
6r17 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

I'm wondering if there are any research groups led by sociologist that explore this topic which may be helped by a group of volunteer ?
I've always wondered why applications like Tinder etc... have not been completely destroyed by open-source already ?

We also forget that communities are essentially what allowed this escape in the first place ; I remember going to psytrance festivals but there are so many more escapes : theater, cinema groups, even in tech you have meetings for rust, programming languages and what not

There is definitely some kind of knowledge around being active in life ; and on that point I do not think that working count as active (I'm myself a workaholic so i'm definitely not the best example here)

There are other drivers for isolation than not knowing how to integrate though - it's not always easy to find people who share those common interest or mindset.

It's a very polarized time period which only exaggerate this - the best way to fight it off is to literally do something meaningless with people (eg : play)

reply

	
SchemaLoad 13 minutes ago | parent | next [–]

The hard part of Tinder is not the software. It's marketing, moderation, balancing the needs of different users, etc. Something that makes the platform shitty for one type of user makes it more desirable for another.
reply

	
Centigonal 1 hour ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> I've always wondered why applications like Tinder etc... have not been completely destroyed by open-source already ?
Same reason why Signal hasn't mogged WhatsApp, Telegram, Messenger, etc. Social apps have enormous network effects, and companies with large marketing budgets and early movers have big advantages when it comes to establishing a community.

reply

	
j2kun 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

Make a social app whose goal is to get people off their phone as quickly as possible. There used to be a slew of apps where you a press a button to indicate "I'm bored/free, who wants to hang out?" and then you get matched with your contact list and anyone else who pressed the button at the same time. But for whatever reason they all flamed out and died.
reply

	
gulugawa 7 minutes ago | parent | next [–]

I think the solution is for the app to advertise public social events where people can make connections and exchange contact information in person.
Allowing random people to message each other without meeting in person is a mistake. The nonverbal cues people get from in person interactions are helpful for discovering shared interested and personality compatibility.

reply

	
kccqzy 44 minutes ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Privacy reasons. You don’t want a VC funded startup to know your contact list and your location (because hanging out in real life requires physical proximity).
reply

	
hireshbrem 1 hour ago | parent | prev | next [–]

one issue is that if you leave it to the free market, you will just get more issues. for monopolies, it's more profitable to keep someone unhealthy (and depressed) than it is to make someone healthy once forever.
reply

	
Herring 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

The causes are deeply structural. It won't be solved any time soon. We're talking about the fundamental organization of modern society.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loneliness_epidemic#Causes_of_...

reply

	
ynac 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

Since it's a societal problem, but solved on the microlevel of one person at a time, it seems the way to have a broader effect is to show the value of having connection with other people over the value of not.
Overcome any addictions (scrolling, gaming, etc.) that stand in the way would be easier if the goal was clear.

Overcoming attitudes and defensive beliefs (too many cliques, they won't talk to me...) go away when you can either recall a time when you had friends or know others who do.

Convince people it's better (in their own value system) to be social, have friends of all kinds, and let them know their value and meaning increase by being a friend, I think you'd have a hard time stopping people from becoming social.

reply

	
thebigspacefuck 38 minutes ago | prev | next [–]

For me, the answer was smoking. I made a ton of friends that way. Always went out to a pool hall, a bar, or a nice patio so I could smoke. It was great. You can’t smoke in your rental so you gotta get out and find places to smoke. Few states you can do it in anymore though. I moved to a state with a smoking ban and quit smoking, no point to it. Don’t get out as much nowadays.
reply

	
SchemaLoad 14 minutes ago | parent | next [–]

I watched this video that proposed that the way to quit phone addiction was to give your hands something else to fiddle with, proposing that in older societies, people spent massive amounts of time on mindless hand work like weaving baskets, knitting, sharpening spears, etc.
reply

	
1970-01-01 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

There is an old joke or trope of an evil scientist creating a worm that destroys the Internet and everyone ends up thanking him for saving the world.
reply

	
l-j-g 7 minutes ago | prev | next [–]

We need an open-source dating / social platform that isn’t designed to monetise loneliness.
We’ve outsourced forming relationships to profit-driven systems that trade comfort and convenience for reduced real-world social effort. By substituting the need to approach people in person, these platforms quietly erode social confidence and reinforce avoidance, exacerbating the social problems they claim to solve.

reply

	
mindwok 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

It cannot be solved, at least not in the way I think people want it to be.
We’re lonely because we are wired to avoid rejection and uncomfortable social situations, and because technology has given us hundreds of alternatives to sitting in the mess of connecting with people.

You can only solve it in your own life - by being courageous and spending more of your time in the physical world than in the digital one, willing to gro through the shitty feelings that come with being a human trying to meet other humans.

You cannot solve it for other people. There’s no sexy solution here. Meetup.com or whatever dating app or tech platform or not for profit will not fix it, because it takes individuals choosing the hard path and that will never happen en masse.

reply

	
Desafinado 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Everyone always gets the causality reversed. Social media didn't cause the epidemic, it filled a niche to help cure the epidemic. People were lonely long before the internet arrived, the internet just made it easier for those lonely people to connect to each other. And now many of them prefer the internet over socializing with people they don't care for that much in person.
In other words, the problem is structural. Moving to a new city where you don't know anyone, only work with people for a few years, and where there are no longer institutions like the church, how is anybody supposed to meet anyone? Meetups? Half the people can't even afford a car.

There is no solution other than meeting a lifelong partner.

reply

	
SchemaLoad 3 minutes ago | parent | next [–]

Yes of course people were lonely before the internet and social media, but that pushed them to go outside and solve the problem. Now they do the digital equivalent of taking drugs to make the problem go away.
reply

	
9rx 2 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> how is anybody supposed to meet anyone?
It used to be that you knocked on the door of the residence beside you.

> And now many of them prefer the internet over socializing with people they don't care for that much in person.

This is the crux of it. Your neighbours weren't ever likely to be your soulmate, but that is who was there to befriend, so you did. But now you don't have to. And since they now feel the same way, they aren't putting in the effort either.

reply

	
Desafinado 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

There is also the problem of familiarity. It's awkward.
Traditionally you'd live around the same people your whole life. Invariably they'd feel like family and it wouldn't feel awkward to get together. But that's not how modernity works. People move to different communities all the time, so it becomes difficult to build familial friendships with others.

That's the essential problem. The internet allows us to stay in touch with people who feel like family. That's what we want to do psychologically. If all those people were in the same city there'd be a lot more socializing.

reply

	
9rx 27 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

> People move to different communities all the time
Although now considerably less than in the past. Peak mobility occurred during the mid-1900s. Most, and increasingly more as time marches forward, will stay close to where they were born.

> That's the essential problem.

It is a problem for individuals in that situation, but does it explain a population-wide epidemic when most never actually leave their familial roots?

> If all those people were in the same city there'd be a lot more socializing.

I am among those who still live near where I was born and have known a lot of the people my whole life. Color me skeptical. Nobody has the time to. They're at work all day and when that's done it is into the car to drive their kid to who knows where to play in a sporting match thinking they are going to become a professional some day.

It was a little different 15-20 years ago. You used to be able to go down to the community centre on a Saturday night and the whole town would be there, ready to mingle. But it turns out the draw was really alcohol, and when police started cracking down on drunk drivers and health concern messaging started to gain attention, it all dwindled pretty quickly.

It's all about priorities, and socializing just isn't a priority for most people anymore. There are so many other things also vying for attention.

reply

	
cocoto 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

Personally I’m living with a partner (only 50% of the time for now), have only two social activities per month outside work in average and some small talk at work. I don’t need more and have no intention to volunteer, join church or anything like that just for the social aspect. I guess the big problem is the (growing?) minority having close to no social experiences.
reply

	
publicdebates 1 hour ago | parent | next [–]

A young woman explained to me the other week what you're doing now. She said it's become a meme called Bean Soup. I'm grateful for all the friends I've made since I starting doing my signs. Genuinely fulfilling friendships, for the first time in my life.
reply

	
vlod 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

When I go to tech meetups, I often see a great deal of people sitting alone using their phones, because interacting with people you don't know is scary.
Try to resist! Yeah it's scary but most tech-heads are as nerdy/goofy as you and are interested in all the details of whatever you hacking on.

reply

	
FloorEgg 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Having kids (with the right partner and good intentions as a parent) is a great way to avoid feeling lonely.
The kid(s) are tremendous source of connection. You may trade for a feeling of exhaustion, overwhelming responsibility, etc. but a lot less loneliness.

Also go a step further and join support groups for parents. Community resources where kids play and parents can hang out and chat. Connection is built through shared experiences, and parenting is an experience you can share with other parents.

Between having kids and participating in events with other parents, there will be a lot less opportunities to feel lonely.

reply

	
yoyohello13 1 hour ago | parent | next [–]

I think you’ve missed a step here. How are lonely and alone people, who have trouble finding friends, supposed to find a spouse and have kids?
reply

	
FloorEgg 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

That's only a problem for people who want to find a spouse and have kids. You're going one step further down the "how" chain.
My point had more to do with the fact that a lot of people are either undecided about kids or have decided not to have kids, and are then struggling with loneliness.

Deciding you want to start a family and prioritizing it (the why) can come before the how.

I'm no expert in dating, but generally in life I've learned that it's easier to get my wants satisfied if I am clear about them.

"I want to start a family and find a partner who also wants to have kids" is a lot less abstract than "I want to feel less lonely".

So, no, I don't think I missed a step. I just think that the best way to find a partner in parenting will depend a lot on the specific person, where they are, how old they are, what they do, etc and isn't conducive to general advice, and maybe HN is not the best place to figure it out?

reply

	
mcdow 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

It's the phones dude. It's literally just the phones. Get rid of the phones and you fix it.
reply

	
bell-cot 2 hours ago | parent | next [–]

Old geezer take: If you're referring to smart phones - social engagement in the US was already headed down 5 decades before those were invented. I blame TV.
reply

	
niam 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

The common denominator is to have shared spaces where it's expected to be among strangers' presence, and for those strangers to eventually become repeat guests in a person's life. That's the maximally comfortable scenario for inducing social behavior and it's responsible for eons of human social history. Think church.
The problem there is that it's the responsibility of groups or society to arrange that. There's not much that a single lonely person can do there.

The less common denominator, that an individual may partake in until society concocts a better solution, is to intentionally visit existing shared spaces even where they otherwise wouldn't (hint: bouldering gyms are good for this because there are repeat faces as well as a social okay-ness to congratulating strangers, or asking how certain challenges can be solved).

Or break with convention, comfort, and perhaps etiquette, and instead just talk to people. Even outside of those spaces. (This is the advice that will piss a lot of people off if it's presented as their only option.) This advice is horrible until it isn't. It does, with enough practice, 'just work'.

---

For an entrepreneur or organizer: it would just go a long way to think about things in terms of allowing conversation to happen unimpeded. Pay attention to where people talk, and about what. Conversations happen a lot in hallways but famously by water coolers, perhaps because it affords people enough time in a shared space to muster the internal capital to start a conversation.

In college I ran a forum for people to meet others and some of the most self-reportedly successful participants just asked questions into the void and were surprised by the number of responses.

reply

	
luplex 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

There are, of course, multiple causes for loneliness. We can't fix them all with one clear action. Here are the main five, in my view:
First, social media. It's too easy to temporarily forget about your loneliness by staying home and doomscrolling or watching TV.

Second, increased mobility. People move around the whole continent now for work, removing them from their closest and oldest social connections.

Third, God is dead. Churches as community centers are dying out. Young people don't trust them anymore, because they don't believe in God, and because churches had many scandals. Secular community centers are very rare and struggle with funding.

Fourth, work is more stressful now. There used to be more time to socialize, but in our quest for productivity, work became denser with fewer idle times.

Fifth, fewer people want to have kids. Much has been written about this.

Now what can we do at societal scale? First of all, study the phenomenon more closely. Who is lonely? Who isn't? Which interventions work? Which cultural factors are important? At your local scale, you can just call or meet a friend.

reply

	
kruffalon 1 hour ago | parent | next [–]

> Fourth, work is more stressful now. There used to be more time to socialize, but in our quest for productivity, work became denser with fewer idle times
The we here is not most people.

The quest for higher productivity is not something people really care about.

reply

	
megaBiteToEat 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Is there a loneliness epidemic? Or is this viewing history through rose colored glasses?
Is the shift from how society used to work to how society has come to work real or just a grammatically correct statement?

Statistics are biased by those who compute them. Have we asked everyone or inferred and p-hacked up data points?

The single salary family is largely a myth. A relatively small percentage of the population ever achieved that. Is the same true for loneliness? Is it a bigger problem now than it has been?

Is this like in medicine where we think ADHD is up, cancer is up... it's an epidemic! When in reality as a percent of society things are normal, we just had no idea before how prevalent those things were before we measured.

reply

	
agentultra 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

Some ideas:
- Get rid of AI chat bots, limit social media use to federated platforms, get out more.

- Encourage cities to build spaces for people rather than cars where folks can meet up without the pressure to buy things and leave. Spaces for walking and hanging out.

reply

	
truenfel 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

I've been working on something called Open Enough Design (OED). The core idea: most rooms force a binary choice between total isolation (the bunker) and overwhelming exposure (the stage). Neither works. What works is a dial you can adjust.
In my book "Leave the Door Open" I suggest simple, high leverage moves anyone can do. Three examples of practical moves that cost nothing:

-Turn your chair to face the door instead of a wall. Your nervous system relaxes when it can see who's coming.

- If you live alone, open your door or window four inches for an hour. The sounds of life beyond your walls remind your body you're not alone on the planet.

- Put out a second chair. Even if no one visits. It shifts your internal posture from "no one is coming" to "I'm expecting life to enter."

Small changes, I know. But the room shapes you as much as you shape it. It's a virtuous cycle.

I write about this at oedmethod.substack.com if you want to go deeper.

reply

	
intellectronica 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

There is no "loneliness epidemic". It's a bad journalism epidemic. People in general are a combination of lone and grouping. Both are OK. People don't need to socialise all the time. People who want to socialise but can't usually suffer from emotional difficulties that they haven't addressed. Same for people who obssess about socialising all the time.
reply

	
Erazal 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

Encouraging people to meet up in everyday life and gathering them just to talk is where I’d simply start.
In that spirit I have created and deployed a vibe coded app: come have dinner.com (not the real website).

A simple website we share with my SO to our loved ones, friends, co workers and more. People can register to come have dinner at ours, with an attendance they don’t know.

The website has an admin interface with a simple password, some good jokes, email reminders and calendar invitations.

Should I open source it?

reply

	
gulugawa 37 minutes ago | prev | next [–]

I think one solution is to have more accessible public spaces where people can meet. As a host of board game meetups, my biggest challenge is finding places to meet. I had to stop hosting Friday game nights because the available spaces were too expensive or closed early.
I'm working on an open source non-commercial website to drive up demand for public spaces. https://createthirdplaces.org/

reply

	
2c0m 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

No one is asking for this advice, but I'm sharing it anyways.
My #1 top priority this year is _social health_. I'm taking it into my own hands. Mostly just continuing things I'm already doing with tremendous payoff. My measurable result is going to be throwing my own birthday party in fall. I've never done that before, I've never had enough friends in my city!

No one group or app is going to come save you from loneliness. You have to get up, go outside, and find people.

0. Say yes to everything, at least if you're new in town. Don't care how scared you are of X social situation. "Do it scared" - @jxnl

1. I am part of my community's swing dancing scene. I take classes, go to social dances, I _show up_ even when I don't feel like it. People recognize me now, know my name, etc. I'm also a regular at my gym. Find a place and be a regular face there. (_how did I become a swing dancer? I got invited, and my social policy prevented me from saying no!_)

2. If I have no social plans for a week I do a timeleft dinner (dinner with 5 strangers). Always have something on the books. I call this my "social workout". If I vibe with anyone I ask if they want to grab ramen the following weekend. Leads me to point #3..

3. Initiate plans. Everyone is waiting for that text "hey, want to go do x with me?". Be that person. I have an almost 100% enthusiastic response rate to asking people to do literally anything. Go on a random walk? Go to costco? Go checkout ramen or pizza spot? You don't have to think of anything special. Whatever you're already doing.. ask someone to come with! Soon they start inviting you to do random stuff.

4. (experimental) I don't drink, which does curtail my social opportunities. I'm considering updating my drinking policy this year. My hypothesis is that the benefits of having a strong community out-weigh the health benefits of abstinence.

reply

	
throwaway2037 3 hours ago | parent | next [–]

    > 4. (experimental) I don't drink, which does curtail my social opportunities. I'm considering updating my drinking policy this year. My hypothesis is that the benefits of having a strong community out-weigh the health benefits of abstinence.
This is a very mature, balanced take. If I may advise: Try some experiments on yourself. You already know how you feel and how you socialise without drinking. Try drinking various amounts in different social settings. How does it feel? Do you like yourself and your life more before? Then go back. Else, continue experimenting until you find a sweet spot.
reply

	
SeanAnderson 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I doubt it's the solution, but a silly program I want to build is something like this:
- Give users a modern Tamagotchi

- Give the digital pet a need to socialize.

- Strap a basic LLM to it so users can talk to their pet.

- Have the pet imprint on its owner through repeated socialization.

- Owner goes to bed, pet still has social needs, goes out into the digital world to find other pets.

- Pet talks to other pets while you're asleep, evaluates interactions, befriend those with good interactions.

- Owner wakes up the next morning, checks their pet, learns it befriended other pets based on shared interests, and is given an opportunity to connect with their pet's friends' owners. Ideally these connections have a better-than-random chance of succeeding since you're matched via shared interests.

I'm sure there's a ton of unsexy technical reasons this is hard to make work well in practice... but dang, I think it would be so cool if it worked well.

I realize this exacerbates the issue in some ways - promoting online-first interactions. But, I dunno. I'll take what I can get these days, lol.

reply

	
gulugawa 5 minutes ago | parent | next [–]

LLMs are a scam and should not be used to address loneliness.
reply

	
null0ranje 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

It kind of sounds like you want to automate small talk. I think we need to have less tech, not more, if we're trying to solve this problem.
reply

	
SeanAnderson 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I could see how it could be interpreted that way!
In my mind, it's more like meeting new acquaintances at the dog park. Dogs start playing with each other and getting along and you end up chatting with the other dog's owner while watching the dogs play together. Trying to recreate those vibes with digital pets.

reply

	
superb-owl 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Build or join a local community!
I’ve been working with https://fractal.boston/ and adjacent communities for the last year and my loneliness has been cured. I now have the opposite problem where I don’t get enough time to myself!

reply

	
stego-tech 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

It’s all about fostering community again, and that’s more than just shared calendars and town events.
It’s “third places” where folks can just hang out and work, play, share, and commiserate without having to pay money to do so.

It’s bringing back establishments that promote lingering and loitering, like food halls or coffee shops, rather than chasing out folks.

It’s about building community centers inside apartment complexes, more public green space, more venues and forums.

Giving people space that doesn’t require a form of payment is the best approach, because humans will take advantage of what’s out there naturally. Sure, structure helps, but space is the issue at present I believe.

reply

	
9rx 2 hours ago | parent | next [–]

> but space is the issue at present I believe.
Is it? There are a number of third places around here that sit effectively vacant. The few who are passionate about seeing those spaces thrive will tell you that the problem is getting anyone to come, not finding space to host them.

reply

	
mdberkey 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Something I've noticed with me and other gen-Zers is that meeting with friends or strangers over Discord VoIP is a great way to socialize. It's missing some of the social benefits of in-person meetups, but it's very low-commitment (just hope on a call) and it's much easier to find others who share your interests.
reply

	
yesitcan 1 hour ago | parent | next [–]

So your solution to loneliness is “use voice chat”?
reply

	
mlmonkey 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I'll add another suggestion: be more forgiving.
Anecdote: I had a friend in SF. He and I would hang out once in a while, and I always looked forward to these hangouts (we'd meet up for coffee, or go for a walk, hang out at Dolores Park, etc.). He is gay, I'm not. His perspective on things was often quite different than mine and I found that interesting. I got married, he stayed single. Even after marriage we would still hang out (though not as often as before). Then we had a child, which sucked all spare time out of my life; but even then we hung out once in a while. Then one winter there was cold/flu/COVID going around. We planned on hanging out and I unfortunately bailed on him at the last moment. This happened 2 more times. Then that bout of illnesses passed and I reached out to him to hang out again. But this time he seemed cold and distant. So I dropped it. And I didn't see him again for almost 3 years.

Then one day I ran into him while walking through Dolores Park. He didn't see me, but I hesitated and still hollered out at him, for old times' sake. He responded and walked over. We chatted a little, I gave him a parting hug and we agreed to hang out again.

A couple of weeks later we managed to hang out again. What I gathered from our meeting was that he had been miffed at what he thought was me blowing him off; and I, when I felt he was cold and distant, had misread his grief at losing his cat. We both misread each other and wasted 3 years.

Moral of the story that I took away from it was: be more forgiving. Friendships are worth the extra effort.

reply

	
mhurron 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

The first step to solving it would be proving it exists.
Because it doesn't. It's been a phrase used for over 40 years to decry basically any change the author didn't like, from different technology, the rise of the 'me' generation or the declining religiousness of the US.

https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/202504/loneliness-is...

Individuals may be lonely, but that has always been true. There is no evidence this is different than before, growing, or in anyway an 'epidemic.'

reply

	
dzink 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

There is a gap between thinking and action. I think the social media and gaming and online stimulions currently designed to bombard and drain your thinking brain, leaves nothing for the action you and your body needs to take. Your brain only has so much chemistry to trigger neural activation and we are blowing it on mental stress to the point where the body doesn’t have any more mental energy to tackle real world stress or handle real world emotions.
Try an A/B test. Do days with zero screen stimuli - no TV, no phones, no online interaction. Go into the world to a cafe, or a common area with people and do stuff. See how you feel and what you feel up to. Vacations might be good and relaxing because you disconnect. Maybe do it without paying for it.

reply

	
socalgal2 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

I fit the
> sit alone every day and have no one to talk to, people of all ages, who don't feel that they can join any local groups

I do not fit the

> So they sit on social media all day when they're not at work or school

I'm bringing this up because, at least for me, the issue is has nothing to do with social media, at least not directly.

reply

	
tre_md_x 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I doubt we can solve this for other people. Each person must solve it for themselves, but for most people the solution will be joining a church and attending weekly. From there, get involved with a ministry, that will lead to appreciation dinners, which will lead to getting invited to the non-religous stuff the people are involved with.
https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2019/01/31/are-relig...

reply

	
andrelaszlo 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

My girlfriend built a web app for meeting up in small groups. I think it's going to be fun! It's not public yet but almost there. Let me know if you live around Stockholm (or Sweden perhaps) and want to beta test it!
reply

	
indymike 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Social media and on demand media hijack the emotional triggers that would usually be resolved by talking to people. Some examples:
* In line at the BMV, bored and feeling lonely. Should resolve loneliness by talking to strangers in line... mostly chit-chat, but sometimes you make a friend! Social media turns this into doom scrolling.

* Sitting in the living room by yourself, feeling a little lonely. Should result in calling up a friend or relative, or heading to get a coffee/beer where you can interact with people. On demand media turns this into low risk watching shows (yes, old school TV was an option, but on demand, there's always something on that is interesting).

So the trick is to make yourself ask if you should give someone a call or go somewhere public when you are pulling out the phone with intent to scroll or watch a show. When you find something you are interested in because you are watching lots of videos about it, or replying on forums, force yourself to engage in the real world. If you are arguing politics, find a group advocating your position and get involved (I've got to meet three majority leaders and two Presidents, plus a bunch of congresspeople you see on the news all the time as a side effect of getting involved because I was pissed off on the internet about business taxation issues). If you find a hobby, find a local group that does that. Learning to play the guitar from YouTube was fun, but jamming with other musicians? Off the charts fun and far more educational that just playing along with videos.

Finally, and this is the big one, try to never eat meals alone. Never say no to going to lunch with coworkers. Join stuff that meets for breakfast. Dinners are hard, but it's surprising what happens when you invite a couple people over for dinner and a beer once in a while.

reply

	
nickdothutton 5 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Might want to read Bowling Alone[1] (or at least some commentary on it) and the "hunkering down" effect.
[1] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bowling_Alone

reply

	
css_apologist 45 minutes ago | prev | next [–]

people act as if this is an individualist problem, but that ignores all the facts
the first place to think about serious change is city planning since the invention of cars & then suburbs

we used to be forced to live next to each other, walk and see each other

it turns our car based city planning doesn’t work on any level if you look at cities which didn’t go all in

reply

	
jokoon 5 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Make a social network that is centered around people who live in a 1 kilometer radius
Make them interact and do things, generally they will be less toxic because it will reduce their online disinhibition effect.

Make them have meals, meet, walk at the park, whatever.

reply

	
publicdebates 5 hours ago | parent | next [–]

I have considered a "physical social network". Standing on my usual street corner and holding a sign that directs strangers to join me and whoever else shows up, for a casual chat at the local coffee place at a specific time, with a few topics for conversation listed on the sign up front. If anyone has ideas for those topics, let me know, I'm likely to do it this Sunday.
reply

	
jokoon 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

you laugh, but bringing people back to reality might require using screens to do it
reply

	
publicdebates 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

Actually I am open to the idea of an (minimalistic, non-profit) app helping solve this. What kind of app, I'm not sure, but I'm open to all ideas, including technology based ones.
I only said that because you reminded me of an idea I had, for a social experiment that tries to bring some "social media" elements into an in-person setting, to see what happens. (I do wish I could afford a camera and someone to man it, I've been told several times that I'd go viral.)

reply

	
arjie 5 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

When NextDoor first came around, I recall walking down the street to help a lady move her couch down to the ground floor. She then gave me some cookies she'd baked. Fun! The notifications it sends me these days are less enjoyable so I send them to spam because unsubscribing doesn't seem to reliably work for me.
reply

	
ceejayoz 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> Make a social network that is centered around people who live in a 1 kilometer radius…
Don't know if they still do, but Nextdoor required address verification via a postcard early on. I was pretty shocked at what some people in my area would post under their real names and locations.

(And well outside the realm of political nonsense. Someone posted a pic of their toddler's first poop in the potty.)

I think the power of shame has reduced significantly in recent years.

reply

	
nozzlegear 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I think shame is still powerful, but in the context of Nextdoor we just don't see our neighbors very often anymore. In many cases they might as well be random people on the other side of the country. I live in a small town and I'm quite friendly with my neighbors, but I still see and talk to them relatively rarely.
reply

	
SoftTalker 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

Civility and sense of decorum have greatly diminished in the past few decades especially online.
reply

	
throwway120385 4 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

When you have a toddler it's very surprising what becomes normal. We're potty-training our son and I sometimes get texts from my spouse with a picture of a poop in a bad spot and then just the word "help."
reply

	
ceejayoz 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I mean, we did that, too. But there's a bit of a gulf between a text to the spouse and posting it for 20k people you run into regularly to see.
reply

	
solatic 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Make Single Room Occupancy (SRO) housing legal again.
Having barely room for little more than a bed forces you to get out during the day. Stuff happens when your default for where to spend your time is not at "home". SRO halls also usually had more room for common spaces to meet and socialize with other people in a similar position in life, and of course, SRO is a very cheap housing option.

reply

	
b65e8bee43c2ed0 2 hours ago | parent | next [–]

have you ever lived in one?
reply

	
solatic 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I lived on a kibbutz for nearly three years after university and had similar levels of personal space. While I definitely would not want to live on a kibbutz for my whole life, there were very significant downsides (internal politics), I made some lifelong friends there and overall consider that experience to have been very positive, in particular for my social life.
reply

	
b65e8bee43c2ed0 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

that's not comparable to SRO in the city, where you'd be sharing living space with far more diverse and vibrant characters. no one in their sane mind would choose to live in one of those, unless they were on the brink of homelessness.
reply

	
bfrog 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

Move to a country that lives outside and isn't car dependent.
reply

	
wjholden 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Sports. CrossFit and similar social sports have been healthy for me and for many others, and I think the community is at least equal to the exercise in improving people's lives.
Not saying this is the only way, but it made a big difference for me and my friends. I realize the physical challenges are artificial, but so is an Advent of Code puzzle when you already have a day job. Hard things are worth doing because they're hard, and they're even better when done together with those you love.

reply

	
MrPapz 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

A couple of years ago I tried to create a platform to connect people to local communities. The twist was that each community had members that worked as buddies to help welcome and guide new members. I got 10s+ communities and members but since there was no business model associated and I needed to work, I couldn't kept it up. The website was https://tribalo.app.
From the few numbers I got, I figure out it help. Maybe one day I don't need to work and can focus on it again.

reply

	
jhwhite 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

LifeKit did an episode on this recently. https://www.npr.org/2026/01/06/nx-s1-5667582/how-to-build-a-...
Some things I do: I organize a monthly brunch for friends. I try and grow it, invite people I've recently met.

If someone asks me to do something, I try and do it. Get invited to poker night, I'm there. Asked to play Fantasy Football, yep! Even though I don't watch football and have never played.

reply

	
cons0le 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

1. Pass a law letting people WFH where its reasonably possible. I WFH in a walkable city and me and my friends try new restaurants every week, always around noon. I've met lots of new people, and joined new groups that I wouldn't have found out about if I was stuck at my desk. Give people more freedom of movement.
reply

	
wbobeirne 2 hours ago | parent | next [–]

Do you have any strong evidence that this would improve the situation? It may be correlative and not causative, but as working from home is increasing, it seems that most related statistics to loneliness are increasing as well. What if it's actually part of the problem and not the solution?
I'm not saying that I have evidence on hand to the contrary, just trying to challenge the idea.

reply

	
bossyTeacher 9 minutes ago | prev | next [–]

> You have to be the one who creates things to do.
This. Isn't it fascinating that for all the different ways we have to reach people (almost immediately, anywhere in the world, at virtually no cost) and all the different social entertainment options, people feel unable to perform an action that is so simple? An action that their ancestors going back all the way to the hominids has done at massively greater costs to them?

What is it that makes people feel this powerless?

reply

	
shevy-java 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

This is a difficult problem to want to solve. Some of it has to do with low income or joblessness. So this is the first focus I would set - make income easier to come by, more fair, more distributed. This in itself will not fix the solo state of people but it would alleviate some worries. Then we have to tackle the social problem. This is really difficult to want to solve. Activity helps, so the state should be able to encourage more activity overall. For instance, in my own youth I was physically more active, so you meet a lot of people through sports - that alone works fairly well. You can probably think of many more cohesive social structures and what not. I think it is a difficult to want to solve problem though. Not everyone uses social media by the way but is still isolated; Japan even gave some odd name to this.
reply

	
techgnosis 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

Best way to solve it is to recognize that it's intentional and start calling it the anti-social epidemic instead. If we keep calling it loneliness then everyone thinks its something that is happening to them, instead of something they are doing.
reply

	
rando77 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

I've wondered if LLMs can help match people. People give the LLM some public context about their lives and two LLMs can have a chat about availablity and world views.
Use AI to scaffold relationships not replace them.

reply

	
gulugawa 2 minutes ago | parent | next [–]

Scam technology like LLMs aren't going to solve the loneliness epidemic.
reply

	
neutralino1 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

Asking people to change their ways is pointless. When something is systemic, only a systemic solution can work.
I have become intimately convinced that engagement-based feeds are the root of many evils of our time, loneliness included.

Here are some of the perverse effects (if ever they needed be told), and how they relate to the loneliness epidemic

- they incentivize individuals from a young age to find stimulation from scrolling mindless content through short dopamine loops instead of seeking satisfaction through longer-term endeavors (e.g. projects, board games, bands, sports teams, etc.) which tend to foster connections with friends, neighbors, family, strangers

- they radicalize and polarize into extreme niche communities (political extremes, conspiracy theories, manosphere, etc) so that it's more difficult to find common ground with a random average person, giving you the impression that everyone is your enemy

- they reflect a skewed version of reality where societal standards (beauty, intelligence, success, wealth, etc) are distorted and artificial, which drives people to believe they are insufficient and ostracized

I firmly believe that engagement-based feeds should be heavily regulated, the same way that other addictive behaviors have (e.g. tobacco, gambling, etc.).

reply

	
thom 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

This is a minor thing, but as an introvert, I really try and push myself to model social behaviour to my kids. Saying good morning to people in the street, chatting to other dog owners, being nice to waiters, travelling by bus, there are lots of tiny opportunities every day to show that world is full of lovely people who aren’t scary at all.
reply

	
anoplus 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

In my opinion - just do it. What you want. Message someone you haven’t talked with for years. Ask someone out. Smile :-). Say hello. Strike a conversation with a stranger.
You deserve it, because you are a human

reply

	
FigurativeVoid 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I have been trying to make more friends in the real and virtual world the past two years, and I have been pretty successful. Most of my new friends come from the following: Volleyball, MtG, or a writing group.
Really, I think that it comes down to make making or joining a space with a shared activity and moderating out the crap.

The problem is most communities are losing those spaces in favor of private social clubs. That's what we need to fight.

reply

	
agumonkey 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

social media should be studied deep and hard
just this week i was stuck with a machine i could use to log on websites, so I just browsed reddit anonymously, no profile, no suggestions, no "me" at all.. and it was delightful, suddenly I'm not here to respond or be heard and my brain went into focus mode, i was eager to read the article linked and not the comments.. very very refreshing

except for critical needs, we should go back to paid limited network access, this will make people allocate their time and attention much better and also do more things outside potentially meeting people

reply

	
ChrisMarshallNY 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I'll say the same thing that I always do. For some reason, it's not popular, hereabouts, but it's worked for me, for over 45 years.
Get involved with volunteer/gratis work. Join an advocacy/charity group. Do stuff for free.

HN members have really valuable skills that can make an enormous difference.

Joining a volunteer organization brings together passionate, action-minded people that already share a common platform.

It can also teach us a lot. My personal career was significantly helped by what I learned, doing volunteer work.

Boom. Loneliness problem solved.

reply

	
astura 2 hours ago | parent | next [–]

Maybe dumb question but how does one "join a volunteer organization?" I tried a long time ago but got ghosted.
reply

	
ChrisMarshallNY 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Not a dumb question.
Depends on the org.

Many large orgs have smaller chapters locally, but there are often regionally-relevant ones.

I’d start with personal passions, and work from there. It won’t really work, unless it’s something we care about.

Volunteer orgs tend to be fairly disorganized, and there’s usually a lot of lively personalities. If one seems too dysfunctional, try another. Don’t just go for one.

Also, it can take some time to get into the “inner circle.” Like any human society, trust takes time to build. We need to be willing to start small. Get to know the place. Figure out where we can make a difference.

I’ll bet that ChatGPT would be a great source of information.

reply

	
astura 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Phrases like "I’d start with personal passions, and work from there" and "we need to be willing to start small" are NOT actionable, they are meaningless platitudes. Not to mention it assumes everyone has "personal passions," an the majority of people probably don't.
I didn't "just go for one." I spent like a month trying to volunteer , for anyone. I was on medical leave from work at time time so I had plenty of time to give. Nobody ever got back to me or picked up the phone. It was worse than applying for a job. I have an anxiety disorder, so even reaching out caused me massive stress and anxiety. So I caused myself distress to feel more worthless than I already felt. My heart is racing and I'm on the verge of tears just typing this up.

So I'll ask again, how does one "join a volunteer organization?"

reply

	
ChrisMarshallNY 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

I am not the person that "ghosted" you, and don't think that I can give you what you want.
The suggestion I gave, was in good faith, but it seems that your "question" was not. I am truly sorry that you had a bad experience, but I wasn't the one that did the nasty.

Have a great day!

reply

	
astura 16 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

>The suggestion I gave, was in good faith, but it seems that your "question" was not.
My question was absolutely asked in good faith, not sure why you think it wasn't? You, yourself, made it sound very easy. I was looking for advice since you've made it sound like you've easily succeeded in volunteering and I wasn't able to. I was hoping, at the very least, for you to share how you got started.

And yeah, it's kinda offensive to get "draw the rest of the damn owl[ed]"[1] when you put yourself out there to genuinely ask for help.

And I still am asking for advice if you're willing to share. I would still love to volunteer.

[1] https://teachreal.wordpress.com/2025/01/25/now-draw-the-owl/

reply

	
josfredo 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Some people think loneliness is somewhat a result of stress and anxiety, it’s far from it. It is precisely the lack of pressure that makes them stay home. You need to apply as much pressure on them so that staying at home becomes unbearable.
reply

	
stetrain 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Maybe our built environment shouldn't consist solely of isolated houses in isolated gated communities where we drive our kids and sit in isolated cars in the school dropoff/pickup lines.
reply

	
michaelrpeskin 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

This may just be me, but I hold the opposite view.
When I lived in a rural area with a few acres of property, I was much more social and engaged with my community.

Now I live at the edge of the city in a medium-high density townhouse area with no private outdoor space. Since I can never really get away from people and be alone, I also have no desire to go out and do things and engage with the community.

I think the variability is nice. If I can get home, relax, not have people around, have some private outdoor space, then I can recharge and have the energy to engage more.

reply

	
taco_emoji 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Eliminate the Internet. I'm not joking -- it's much, MUCH harder to be lonely if you don't have Amazon, Instacart, UberEats, and social media fulfilling various needs in your life.
reply

	
ladidahh 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

It's not perfect, but I've managed to make some friends on Bumble BFF, https://bumble.com/bff-us/ . If you are more of a one on one person and feel awkward in groups, this is the best thing i've found so far
reply

	
10xDev 1 hour ago | parent | next [–]

This feels like a sus promotion but that aside, when I went on it, it seemed like a bunch of dudes using it as some sort of grindr.
reply

	
ladidahh 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

oh yeah, my perception was that it was 75% gay, but, I think the grindr comparison is unfair, I think I've only been propositioned once or twice and no unsolicited dick pics!
reply

	
jgoode 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

To a first order, how can we decrease percentage of people that are single should be the question.
reply

	
barbazoo 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Join local groups. Talk to and engage with your neighbours. Volunteer in your community.
reply

	
trentnix 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Start with you: 1. Daily sunshine 2. Nutritious diet 3. Adequate, quality sleep 4. Exercise
You'll find virtually every dimension of your life will improve if you're on top of these four things. It will make you more ambitious in pursuing social engagement. And that will make socialization much easier.

reply

	
shdisi 5 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I have no link or affiliation with this company, but recently heard about it:
https://storiboardclub.com/

They say they want to “make meeting like-minded people easy, natural, and fun” and “ Loneliness doesn't have to be the norm.”

https://storiboardclub.com/about-us

reply

	
adenta 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Trading Cards!
IMO the biggest barrier to entry to the hobby is the price, coupled with the existing communities being really old. I'm trying to get people to print their own cards for casual kitchen table play through https://cardstocktcg.com.

reply

	
syntaxing 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

Are you talking about the US? If so, I heard this proposed on a podcast “Grey Area”. Mandatory two year draft for all, regardless of gender. It sounds crazy at first but it kind makes sense the more you think about it.
reply

	
lifeisstillgood 1 hour ago | parent | next [–]

I also have long thought this. Probably not for military service but some form of community service,
reply

	
hightrix 1 hour ago | parent | prev | next [–]

No. It sounds crazy after thinking about it for a while also. Especially with the current administration.
This is not the American way.

reply

	
syntaxing 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

Hmm interesting, what is the American way? We had conscription between 1940-1973. What makes it non American?
reply

	
hightrix 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

The draft was wildly unpopular during that short period of time when it was active.
Americans, prior to trump, espoused the concept of freedom. That includes the freedom to not serve in the military.

reply

	
syntaxing 52 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

I think I get what you’re trying to say but realistically, it doesn’t add up. The draft was 33 years. The US is only 250 years old (give or take) so over 10% of our history had conscription. The Vietnam and Korean War was widely unpopular because it was the first broadcasted war. People watch their family get blown up on TV. It had nothing to do with “freedom to serve military”.
If you argue a draft is counterproductive because it a waste of resources and we have better means to serve young adults, I could buy it. But arguing a draft is not the American way because it’s “our freedom to decide what we want” is a bit silly.

I do absolutely agree that I wouldn’t trust the current administration or culture to faithfully execute on this idea though.

reply

	
jschveibinz 5 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I normally don't contribute to HN comments these days (too much anger in the comments section) but I appreciate your post and activities.
I am a tail-end boomer in the U.S. so my experiences were with a world where socializing was more functional: we shopped in public, played in public, read in public libraries, watched movies in public, rode transit together, etc. Being in public was a requirement, not a choice. While there are still remnants of this older culture still active in today's world in urban life, there are so many options for not being in public that it is simply easier to avoid it. We all want our space in one degree or another.

On the playground growing up, my world was filled with name-calling and backbiting. I was a heavier kid, so that was my burden. Other kids had bucked teeth, warts, limps, they were too short, or too tall, uncoordinated--whatever--nobody really escaped the wrath of the crowd. We were forced, by our parents, to just deal with it.

My parents like many others in their generation recognized this behavior for what it was--natural. Watch an episode of the Little Rascals--you will see what I am referring to.

Most if not all of those kids who were called names and isolated in some way found ways to break out of their pigeon hole: playing sports, playing music, making art, studying hard at school, boxing, singing, dancing, cracking jokes, whatever. Then they were heroes, and the crowd could celebrate them--and they thrived.

I know this sounds overly idealistic, but it is true. I experienced this first hand in a neighborhood of several hundred kids from broken homes, poor homes, ethnic homes, etc.

Voiceless people must find their voice. The responsibility is their's. The crowd will not come to the rescue of the person who won't stand up for themselves and make their way in life.

Loneliness is very, very sad. The cure to loneliness is in the powerful hands of the lonely person. Do whatever it takes, as long as it takes, to work on those things that hold the lonely person back from achieving something--anything--for themselves and then engage with the crowd with more confidence.

I appreciate what you are doing by helping others--that is one of your superpowers. Live a good, strong life!

reply

	
hypeatei 3 hours ago | parent | next [–]

Your first paragraph is what I've always thought: "back in the day" most people simply didn't have the option to be a hermit. In modern life, your bills, grocery shopping, car registration, hobbies, etc. can all be handled online / in your home.
In my opinion, it takes a lot of time and energy to avoid loneliness in the modern era. So, advice about "just get yourself out there" is technically accurate, but it misses the mark since previous generations didn't need to put much thought, if any, into socializing. Perhaps not everyone is wired to focus so much energy into that aspect of their life and we're seeing that play out with modern amenities?

reply

	
publicdebates 5 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Thanks for the rare comment.
I agree that these people need to do the work themselves.

But they first need to be encouraged and motivated, no? Otherwise they'd have done it by now. That's kind of what I'm trying to figure out how to do.

reply

	
ianberdin 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I visit whatever sport activity I can find. Like Go Karting, gymnastics, bouldering, etc and always start asking pro guys: “yo, how come you visit this so often? How do you get fun from it?”. And people lovely tell their story. Later they teach me how to do things. It works for me.
I am a solo bootstrap founder, ultra lonely.

reply

	
rpjt 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I built a mobile app that allows you to get a morning wake up call from a real person. Part of my motivation here was to help add a little human interaction to what is a lonely experience for some people.
reply

	
dirtybirdnj 5 hours ago | prev | next [–]

The older people get the more disposable they are viewed as by society.
When you are younger, you belong in school. When you get older, you belong at work.

If you fall out of any of these social structures its extremely difficult to find your way back in.

I was already pretty disconnected from society and people in general when my divorce hit and now I am completely untethered from any kind of community. Living is miserable I hate my life and I do not want to exist like this anymore.

None of the solutions people provide are easy or functional. "Go meet people" is the most vague, unhelpful bullshit ever.

I think the reality is some people, no matter how intelligent, caring or otherwise full of empathy they may be are just "too far gone" for anyone to have the initiative or concern to care about us. The world is so corroded and socially poisoned that any kind of meaningful effort in this kind of thing is pointless. Anybody with time or money is busy making money.

You can't solve the epidemic because it is a byproduct of multiple irreparably broken systems. People will continue to fall through the cracks and it will get worse. I don't know what happens after that but we'll probably all be dead.

reply

	
hwhehwhehegwggw 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

People who live in London, how did you find a solution for this? I am interested in hearing what you tried. I am in my very early 30s. Single male. I didn't feel up in UK. Moved here I my 20s.
reply

	
frankdenbow 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Working on a basketball app to bring people together. Basketball was invented out of grief, by James Naismith who lost his grandfather, mother, father, and family home to a fire within 4 months. He was tasked with helping to have rambunctious youth learn the principles of teamwork and sharing and slowing down and thus created the game. It truly brings people together and I hope everyone gets a chance to experience the magic that is pickup basketball. It got me out of a deep hole after the pandemic after my mom had passed and I gained 30 lbs.
reply

	
codegeek 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I dont know the solution but few things that are root cause:
- Internet and Social Media

- Neighborhoods no longer are walkable especially suburbs at least in America. Kids are not encouraged to go bike to their friends place anymore because of traffic risks.

- High Trust societies have degraded into "lets keep ot myself, I can't trust anyone these days". Decades ago, you could just walk into a neighbor's home and say hello. Now, you need an appointment just to talk to a neighbor or are too worried what they will think of you.

- No real friendships after school/colleges. This is a huge deal once you are out on your own in the real world. Work relationships are meh at best and with remote work nowadays, it has become even worse.

- Even if you join a club or activity, they are too "planned" and "robotic". For example, my kids take a dance class and they said they don't like it. I realized why. There is no break. They don't even get to spend like 30 mins with other kids socializing etc. There is a fixed schedule. You go, you dance, you leave.

But this is the world today. So I don't know how to fix it.

reply

	
arjie 5 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I am somewhat suspicious of this loneliness epidemic. 81% of Americans are somewhat satisfied or very satisfied with their personal life[0]. And my personal experience is that both close friends and general civil community is easy to find[1]. I wasn't trying at all so it can't be that there are any real constraints here.
0: https://news.gallup.com/poll/655493/new-low-satisfied-person...

1: https://wiki.roshangeorge.dev/w/Blog/2025-10-09/Community

reply

	
nyrikki 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

I don't think [0] is showing what you think it does.
> % Very satisfied with the way things are going in personal life

That Dropped from 65% in 2020 to 44% in 2025

> Record-Low 44% of Americans Are 'Very Satisfied' With Their Personal Life

Also focusing on the raw percentages of these style reports is challenging, due to socially desirable response bias [0]

The fact it is dropping is the important part, it is a relative measure, not a absolute one, and I am sure Gallop would change there questions/responses in a modern survey that didn't need to maintain compatibility with historical data.

[0] https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5519338/

reply

	
arjie 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

* Gallup (not Gallop) has the English questions and responses in the PDF at the bottom of the page. They will also respond if you email them so you can check if wording changed significantly.
* Yes, I am pretty sure the Gallup thing is showing exactly what I think it does considering I said "81% are [somewhat] satisfied or very satisfied" and the Gallup survey shows that 81% are somewhat satisfied or very satisfied.

* The fact that the Hacker News community was enthusiastic about the thesis of a loneliness epidemic during a period when satisfaction was rising casts aspersions on "the fact that it is dropping is the important part". When satisfaction was rising, there were still posts on that where everyone was agreeing about how bad it was.

reply

	
nyrikki 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I was looking at the PDF [0] and [1] and [0] calls out:
> In addition to sampling error, question wording and practical difficulties in conducting surveys can introduce error or bias into the findings of public opinion polls.

``QN5:Personal Satisfaction is a binary question``, with a category for refused/didn't know that WAS NOT OFFERED IN THE QUESTION, with an additional question asking about very, sort of etc... They call out `QN5QN6COMBO: Personal Life Satisfaction`

I can't answer the HN sentiment straw man, the DELTA from previous results is what is important. Using it as an absolute scale would almost certainly be discouraged if you asked them via the email address in the PDF.

Basic statistics realities here, and Gallup knows the limits far better than the comment section here. And they understand that "81% are [somewhat] satisfied or very satisfied" especially when presented as two trivial properties, has limitations.

Once again they asked:

> In general, are you satisfied or dissatisfied with the way things are going in your personal life at this time?

Then followed up with:

> Are you very [satisfied/dissatisfied], or just somewhat [satisfied/dissatisfied]?

Note how both of those are binary, with a NULL being an option to mark down as an exception.

You do not have quintiles at all.

[0] https://carsey.unh.edu/sites/default/files/media/2020/07/gal...

[1] https://news.gallup.com/poll/1672/satisfaction-personal-life...

reply

	
arjie 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I don't think it's a straw man. If it is true that the delta matters and it is also true that at the time when this metric was showing the most positive results and trending upwards, online communities such as this talk about the existence of the loneliness epidemic https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=20468767 then one must ask oneself whether this is a property of the online communities in question.
At the time when the gallup poll showed an upward trend towards its peak this community was talking about the loneliness epidemic. When the gallup poll shows a downward trend toward its lowest, this community is talking about the loneliness epidemic. And it's the change in satisfaction that is the most significant. So there are two changes in opposite directions causing the same conclusion.

If this were happening to me, I would ask myself "Am I sure this is a general property and not just a property of me?". Do you find this not convincing to move your estimate of the likelihood of the loneliness epidemic actually existing? If you don't, it's all right. We can leave it here.

reply

	
munificent 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> 81% of Americans are satisfied or very satisfied with their personal life[0].
No, 81% are "very satisfied" or "somewhat satisfied". I don't think "satisfied" is synonymous with "somewhat satisfied".

It's worth noting, as the article states, that this is the lowest value in the history of the poll, going back to 2001.

It shouldn't be too surprising that the overall value is high and stable over time. Hedonic adaptation[1] is a core property of our emotional wiring. The fact that the value is the lowest it's been in a quarter century should still be ringing alarm bells. We are not OK.

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hedonic_treadmill

reply

	
arjie 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

It's a 5 point scale, so landing a 4 or 5 on satisfaction on a 5 point scale seems significant. Also, when the value was at its highest in that time series, Hacker News had articles like this: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=20468767
The comments there are full of people describing this loneliness epidemic when 65% of people were very satisfied and 90% of people were "somewhat satisfied or very satisfied". No matter what surveys of people's satisfaction with their personal lives show, there appears to be an enthusiasm for this subject of the loneliness epidemic. This makes me suspect that this is less an epidemic than an 'endemic' (if you'll forgive the word).

Regardless, I didn't intend to mislead so I'll edit it to say "somewhat satisfied or very satisfied (4 or 5 on a 5 point scale).

reply

	
munificent 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

> It's a 5 point scale, so landing a 4 or 5 on satisfaction on a 5 point scale seems significant.
No, it is absolutely not. Gallup is not asking "on a scale of 1-5, how would you rate your satisfaction?" They are asking:

"In general, are you satisfied or dissatisfied with the way things are going in your personal life at this time? Are you very [satisfied/dissatisfied], or just somewhat [satisfied/dissatisfied]?"

When it comes to surveys and social science the specific wording of questions has a huge impact on the results.

reply

	
arjie 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Sure, and 81% of people are somewhat satisfied or very satisfied. And the loneliness epidemic thesis was popular around the time that very satisfied was at its peak of 65% (when somewhat or very satisfied summed up to 90%).
reply

	
yannyu 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

Did you read the article you cited or are you just evaluating the snapshot of numbers?
> WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Forty-four percent of Americans say they are “very satisfied” with the way things are going in their personal life, the lowest by two percentage points in Gallup’s trend dating back to 2001. This also marks the continuation of a decline in personal satisfaction since January 2020, when the measure peaked at 65%.

> Record-Low 44% of Americans Are 'Very Satisfied' With Their Personal Life

And then to link to your own blog post as though that were a supporting citation is strange to say the least.

It's a lot of "just stop being depressed" energy.

reply

	
arjie 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

My blog post is a more detailed expression of a sentence that starts with "my personal experience". I think that's fine.
And of course I read the article. That's why my sentence explicitly says "satisfied or very satisfied" whereas the text you quote only selects the "very satisfied". One can imagine that if I had only linked without reading I could not possibly have guessed 81% correctly either.

I'm not saying "just stop being depressed". I'm questioning that any significant portion of the population is depressed. I think that's valid.

reply

	
publicdebates 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I can only speak anecdotally from what I have seen in TikTok videos and TikTok comments, and yes, a significant portion of people in society are very depressed, and drinking/smoking/screwing their way through it, putting on a Joker smile.
reply

	
arjie 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I think certain populations have this effect, yes. As an example, teen suicides have genuinely risen in the US in the post-smartphone/post-social-media era. So I think the evidence (suicides are not subject to measurement error as much) is pretty strong that certain populations (all teenagers, for instance) are encountering unhappiness to a great degree.
But TikTok is renowned for having an algorithmically tailored feed that is specifically engagement maximizing. While there are some selection effects in the people one encounters in normal life, surely one must concede that an algorithmically tailored feed maximizing engagement cannot possibly be anything but highly selected.

reply

	
andrei_says_ 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Not online.
People, together, doing things, ideally having fun.

Spaces and activities that provide venues for communication, humor, authenticity, play, touch, collaboration.

reply

	
ravenstine 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

We can encourage people to start families and stop telling them that it's the end of anything fun.
reply

	
platevoltage 3 hours ago | parent | next [–]

You can't just start a family on your own. I don't know how this addresses loneliness.
reply

	
d_burfoot 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I mean this seriously: we need more cults.
Cults have been viciously slandered by mainstream information sources, often because lurid cult stories generate clicks and headlines. Of course some cults are abusive, just like some marriages are abusive. But we still think marriage is good in general.

If you think all cults are bad, you're implicitly against all religion, since every mainstream religion was once a cult. Being anti-cult is also profoundly un-American. America was built by cultists. Freedom of religion is literally the first principle stated in the Bill of Rights.

A cult is really just a professionally managed social environment. If you trust professionals like lawyers, doctors, or teachers with their respective duties, there's no reason in principle you shouldn't trust a cult leader to manage your social environment for you. Of course you should vet them, ask about their reputation, etc.

reply

	
tmerc 5 minutes ago | prev | next [–]

Many of these comments recommend church. While valid if it works for you, it doesn't mesh with me.
I found community through a shared enjoyment of an activity that must be done as a group. Grass roots motorsports in my case, but any activity that needs you to be there with others should work the same. The key is that you should enjoy it and you should have time to interact with people. I like to make car go vroom, but generalize the approach and it should work.

My first season, I won an event with a hero run that sent me from 5th to 1st. When I parked, a random guy stuck his head in my window and started hyping me up for it. I still think about that 3 years later and it still makes me feel good. That feeling made me want to do that for others.

I started approaching random people I'd seen before and just starting a conversation. It was rough the first few times but it gets easier. You already have a shared activity so just start with that. I made a point to remember people's names or at least their car (bad with names, but cars stick for some reason). If the name didn't stick, I'll ask again next time and maybe bring up their car so they know I remember them. When I know their name, I use it when I see them again. Maybe just "Hey bob!" as I'm passing, but something to let them know someone there knows them and cares enough to say hi. They're not a stranger at least. If I haven't seen them in a while, I ask how they've been and spend a bit more effort on the conversation than just a "hey".

It started with the regulars. Now I'm looking for the new faces. I know stuff and they need to know that stuff, so it's easy to talk. If they come back, they should be able to find someone to talk to so I introduce them to some of the other regulars.

I look for people eating lunch alone and I go talk to them. Maybe 2 to 5 minutes, maybe longer. Depends on them. Sometimes I'm awkward. Sometimes I say dumb stuff. Whatever. I'm trying to help these people not be alone at a social event if they don't want to be. If they do, that's fine too, but I'll try again next time.

Some people are closed off and don't really want to talk. That's fine. I still say hi by name and see how it goes. Not trying to push, just keeping the door open. After a few times of trying, a lot of people will start to open up our let the guard down. Some don't.

I'm an introvert and all of this takes extra mental energy on top of the events being competition and work. I don't have the time to compete at the highest level every event because I'm spending time helping others. Rather than getting a better driver in my car to tell me where I'm making mistakes, I'm trying to get the less skilled drivers in my car so they can see why I'm faster. Instead of reviewing data over lunch to see where I'm losing time, I'm trying to build community. I want people to come back. There's a cost to it.

I moved to the middle of nowhere 10 years ago and had no local friends. Work friends are rarely real friends. Tech meets, young professionals groups, nothing came out of those. It sucks to go to a bar alone. None of that produced anything.

Motorsport has been the only activity I've tried where I've started making friends who I talk to outside the events. A lot of it is still about motorsports, but I've gained a few friends who I sim race with or talk to online in the off season. It could have been any other group or activity, but those are the people who made me feel welcome.

Real figures, there are at least 25 people I can walk up to and start a conversation with at an event and have good rapport, more that I know by name and just haven't clicked with, 2-3 people I consider actual friends. I started putting in the effort like this after my first season, so this is the product of 2 seasons of effort (winter doesn't count because there are no events). I'm still kind of lonely, but it's better and getting better.

I think it's that I put in effort. I know I've helped some of those people feel like part of a community. I gave them a few people they could talk to so they didn't feel so alone. Maybe my role was just keeping them coming back until they found their clique. Maybe I need more time to get to know them. Some introverts need an extrovert to help them get started. Sometimes that extrovert is an introvert tryhard.

The reason I do this is cause one guy stuck his head in my window after a run and said something like "bro that was awesome! Nice run!" And he was genuinely happy for me even though he barely knew me. I'm not good at that specific thing so I try in my own way.

I think people look for community. I did. I bounced off a few groups because I didn't fit in. I'm trying to do my part to help people "fit in". Tech solutions ain't gonna help here. Get face to face, make outsiders feel accepted, and see what happens.

And thanks, Clarke.

reply

	
Krypto26 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

I think old-school chat rooms might be a solution to this.
reply

	
bradlys 51 minutes ago | prev | next [–]

This comment will get buried in the sea of individual responses here since I am too late. But for the dumpster divers, here is my contribution!
1. People have obscenely high standards for social interaction. If this person is not an outlier (in a good way) with their behaviors, it's just not going to happen. Most people have a very low tolerance for new people in their life. This has always existed to some degree but people today much prefer to listen to endless content from their favorite streamers, comedians, etc. and form parasocial relationships.

2. The environment for interacting with people has much higher stakes. Think about all the people who get recorded and posted on TikTok every single day. These are people doing it where you can see it - not just the Meta glasses people who remove the recording light. You can act like being a weirdo has no consequences but everyone has this extremely powerful device that can broadcast whatever you do to billions of people immediately - and you can suffer real consequences from this. Every crashout you have in any kind of crowd will be posted for eternity so that the world can see.

3. There is less and less benefit to having social networks/friends. Your friends aren't going to help you get a job, buy you a house, or meet your spouse. Meeting a spouse through friends is increasingly rare as online dating is dominating. As much as everyone complains, it is the major way people meet their spouse in major cities. People assume this is because friend networks are getting smaller but it's not due to that. It's because standards for interaction within friend groups has changed and standards for partners has changed. Unless you are prolific top 1% social maximizer, you are not going to run into anywhere near enough eligible people in your social network to meet your maximized match. We expect to completely maximize and find the best possible fit for our spouse now. Compromise of any kind is considered worse than dying alone. Cost of housing has exploded, jobs have become very hard to keep/find, and this turns everything into a transaction. Living with friends and kicking them out when they can't make rent is a tough but very real situation. People are more transactional because the economy dictates its necessities. Your family is the only thing that will bail you out - your friends can't overlook you skipping $2000/month in rent for 6 months.

There is more but anyway - loneliness epidemic is not going to get solved. It will continue to get worse until some kind of revolution which would require a complete reworking of our entire economy. I would accept this as the new normal and try to figure out how you can optimize your own individual experience in spite of all these things that are working against you. It is not worth trying to fight it on a systemic scale because there are simply too many components and the core cause is one our entire economy is based around. (A good investment is inherently counter to affordability)

reply

	
theshackleford 54 minutes ago | prev | next [–]

Housing in my city has been expensive for years, and the knock-on effect is that most people I know live so far apart we barely see each other anymore.
When you stack a two hour trip each way on top of the rising cost of doing anything at all, on top of already crushing housing and living costs, you end up with a perfect storm where staying home becomes the default. Not because people don’t want to socialise, but because the effort and expense make it impractical.

This has been a prolem where I live for years and I've actively watched it become worse over time as people have been forced to move further and further apart, and further and further away from the active areas of the city in order to be able to afford to keep a roof over their head.

reply

	
nobodywillobsrv 55 minutes ago | prev | next [–]

AI (chat) companies now have enough data to recommend h2h (human to human) but they are not building this.
They could literally find people who are working on he same things and recommend them for networking etc.

But that would take you off platform. Off attention.

Who wants to build this. Others must be thinking the same thing?

reply

	
throwaway_2494 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

I like to hang around at my local skate park.
I'm not very good on a skateboard, better on a BMX. In any case the vibes are usually good.

Sometimes you think people aren't even noticing you, till you finally land the trick you're working on and a total stranger yells 'whoo!'

reply

	
lbrito 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

People are suffering from PCNS. Here is a great documentary about it https://youtu.be/9kqgF5O354E?si=5UMifCZuk_sP71m0
reply

	
pshirshov 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

Obviously, someone has to create a nice big corp which would make us nice LLM friends and family members, yes, yes, yes!
reply

	
markus_zhang 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I think this is fine? I’m pretty quiet in my real life but I do talk about here.
reply

	
10xDev 1 hour ago | parent | next [–]

I don't view this as socialising. It is mostly a battle of narratives.
reply

	
SoftTalker 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

It can be fine, if you're happy in a mostly solitary life there's nothing wrong with that.
If you're unhappy and feel a need for more friends, then you'll need to take some action if all you do is sit at home on a screen all day.

reply

	
PokemonNoGo 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

About what?
reply

	
egypturnash 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Destroy social media.
Fund free places to hang out.

reply

	
Sohcahtoa82 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

Start passing out fines for people calling the cops on kids that are doing absolutely nothing wrong.
Hanging out in public spaces and skateboarding are not crimes.

reply

	
platevoltage 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

> Fund free places to hang out.
And here lies the problem. There are no free spaces to hang out anymore.

reply

	
ulrischa 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

The answer is social media. But social is per se difficult like in real life.
reply

	
gipp 5 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Well, let's start by confronting and acknowledging the very strong case that we -- "we" here being the tech world in general, and the audience of this site -- bear a heavy burden of responsibility for it.
It could be argued that it was all inevitable given the development of the Internet: development of social media, the movement online of commerce and other activities that used to heavily involve "incidental" socialization, etc. And maybe it was. But "we" are still the ones who built it. So are "we" really the right ones to solve it, through the same old silicon valley playbook?

The usual thought process of trying to push local "community groups," hobby-based organizations etc is not bad, but I think it misses an important piece of the puzzle, which is that we've started a kind of death spiral, a positive feedback loop suppressing IRL interaction. People started to move online because it was easier, and more immediate than "IRL." But as more people, and a greater fraction of our social interaction moves online, "IRL" in turn becomes even more featureless. There are fewer community groups, fewer friends at the bar or the movies, fewer people open to spontaneous interaction. This, then, drives even more of culture online.

What use is trying to get "back out into the real world," when everyone else has left it too, while you were gone?

reply

	
SoftTalker 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

Not everyone has left the real world, only the people who got really sucked into the online/social media world. This can maybe seem like the whole world though, if you're in that bubble.
Bars are still packed on the weekends, people still gather at churches, or gyms, or bowling leagues, or book clubs, or any number of other "IRL" activities of all kinds that are going on. You do have to make the effort to go out and get involved though, nobody is going to come and rescue you.

reply

	
boelboel 2 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Many of these activities have gotten extremely expensive or just died out in the majority of places. There's 2600 bowling alleys in the US compared to 4000 20 years ago. That's a decline of 35% without accounting for population. Last time I went to a bowling alley the price for a lane without drinks was 100 dollars for an hour and a half. This isn't even in a very high cost of living area. Besides a place like the gym can hardly be considered a place where people gather, most people just see it as something functional and would rather not be disturbed (I believe this has gotten 'worse').
I agree with the fact that it's exaggerated online but when you see these kinda numbers in the vast majority of activities which were affordable for most Americans not too long ago it's not solely to be blamed on individuals.

I believe in the majority of the country things will only get worse with how little value is placed on being involved in things for 'community'. People have gotten more anti-social because of social media (and just media in general).

Most tech workers won't be as impacted by this I assume, they can afford paying 200 dollars for bowling without thinking twice, same with many others of the upper middle class.

reply

	
csallen 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

This is an individual problem and an individual's responsibility to solve, imo (Although I do think it's interesting to consider whether a project, company, or initiative could help make this easier to solve for millions.)
Regardless, there are four steps worth taking as an individual: (1) go out, (2) make friends, (3) turn friends into community, and (4) maintain community.

If you're feeling lonely, you're probably failing at one step along this chain.

1. Going out. I don't have a lot of tips here. Except to go to things that actually facilitate interacting with strangers. Don't just go to a bar or go work from a cafe. Go to a meet and greet, an event for strangers to mingle, etc. Or, if you're having trouble motivating yourself to go out, then that's something inside yourself to work on. I find that a shakeup to your life routine (e.g. moving cities, going on a vacation) can provide a good window to change your habits, where you'll start doing things you don't normally do in your home city.

2. Making friends. This one is simple but hard for some. Basically: be personable, smile, engage in conversation, ask questions, be interested, avoid being threatening or clingy, dress and stylish normal-ish unless you really don't want to, etc. Then talk to people at these events, and if seems like you'd like hanging with them and have things in common, ask to exchange numbers.

3. Turn friends into community. IMO this is where you go from the basics into the advanced, and where the most benefits lie. However, most people stop after #2, even though this step is easier than steps #1 or #2, and is extremely rewarding. Community is an in-person social network. The number of connections between people in a community determines the strength and stickiness of that community. Thus it's very important that you introduce your friends to other friends. For example, instead of going on a coffee date with a friend once every month or two, invite 2 or 3 friends to dinner. This has numerous benefits. All of your friends will meet each other, and suddenly they'll know who you're talking about when you mention other people. Also, conversation is easier when there are more people. Also, you'll find events and hangs happen more often, because (a) more people are able to initiate them, and (b) there's more reason to go. People are more motivated to go and less motivated to cancel when there's an event that allows them to see multiple friends at once.

4. Maintain community. People move away. People have silly fights and disagreements and stop talking to each other. People get into relationships and disappear. People get sick, or old, or antisocial, and disappear. Shit happens. So you have to keep doing steps #2 and #3, at least occasionally, forever. You don't necessarily need to do step #1 as much, since the people in your community will naturally bring friends and whatnot to your events. But you still need to get to know these people, exchange numbers, and invite them to future events.

reply

	
Fricken 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Shared stressors are what bring people together. Communities form when a group of people all have the same problem. Go around egging peoples homes in your neighbourhood, and keep doing it. By the time your neighbours finally catch you they will all have gotten to know and appreciate one another better. They will have formed a communtiy identity.
reply

	
naveen99 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

loneliness is not really transmissible like an epidemic. If two lonely people get together, they aren’t lonely anymore.
reply

	
draugadrotten 2 hours ago | parent | next [–]

It is very possible to be extremely lonely in a room full of people.
People are uncomfortable to interact and make small talk. They know smileys and lmao, but many have forgotten how to laugh irl.

reply

	
reducesuffering 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Affordable third places[0] where people can impromptu join and serendipitously meet friendly faces repeatedly. All of my strong friendships were from exactly this at either skateparks, college dorm common area, or run clubs. Churches had this figured out for millenia
[0] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Third_place

reply

	
parpfish 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

it seems like a lot of locales that would have been third places in the past have been neutered because the people go there and then immediately put up walls. coffeeshops have become ad-hoc offices where people will sit there with a laptop and give off "leave me alone, i'm working".
people need to find a way to sit in a third space without pulling up a screen or a book that immediately re-isolates you.

also: don't underestimate the subtle effect of architecture and seating arrangements here. a coffee shop is filled with lots of little two-seat tables that intentionally isolate. for contrast, think about local pubs/bars -- there's one big central seating arrangement where evertybody is facing the bartender. the bartender is naturally placed in a position that makes them serve as a conversational mediator that can facilitate connections between then people hanging out on the periphery.

reply

	
scoofy 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

CTRL+F "third place" -- take my upvote.
Anyone suffering in the loneliness epidemic should have a copy of The Great Good Place, by Ray Oldenburg. The entire point is that you should be putting yourself into socially active areas in your community.

This includes: a church, a local pub or coffee shop with regulars (ideally walking distance from where you live), a rec sports/game league or club.

Knowing this, I've perused it in my life and it seems very effective. I'm a regular at a Trivia Night one night per week (I don't go every week, but enough to know both the bartender and host by name). I'm a regular at a bar three blocks away from where I live, even if I consume only one non-alcoholic beverage and one alcoholic beverage per visit (a couple night a week), that leaves me plenty of time to chat with my neighbors. I'm a member of a local golf club (a very cheap municipal course), and play there every other week, and after a couple years have very good relationships with many of the other members even if we don't interact much outside of the club. At my last apartment, I was a regular at the coffee shop enough to know multiple baristas by name, it wasn't exactly a third place situation, but it was getting close before I moved. I'm not religious, but I'm very familiar with academic institutions and open lecture series that I used tot attend in grad school.

I do this intentionally. My partner had never been a regular at a bar before, and she really, really enjoys it now even though she doesn't really drink. When she joins me, she will maybe consume one-half of a light beer. You don't have to be an alcoholic to be a regular, this is a major point that Oldenburg discusses when he contrasts German-style drinking culture with English-style drinking culture.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Great_Good_Place_(book)

reply

	
musiclocal 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I think the big solution consists of many small solutions. One problem I identified is that social media platforms (1) decimated local live music events coverage in mid-sized cities and (2) placed live music events into the same "filter bubble" algorithm as everything else, making it difficult for people to discover what is going on nearby.
I started https://musiclocal.org, a 501(c)(3), as a curated live music events platform for my local area (and hopefully others). We list all the live music events in the area, and we optimize the software for usability, performance, SEO, etc. The goal is to make discovering local live music events as easy as doom-scrolling. We have had an outstanding reception in the area we serve. We are not self-sustaining yet, but I am optimistic about our chances. As a non-profit, we do not do any of the dark-pattern garbage that has become omnipresent in social media and other consumer software. We just do the right thing as best we can.

Here is some more background (from our "Issues" page):

At MusicLocal, we focus on the root challenges facing local music communities to address endemic issues of negative social media practices, isolation and community polarization, and economic concentration and monopolization. Specifically:

• We believe convenient, comprehensive live music event listings are critical to reversing the decline in local music journalism. • We believe ethically designed, steward-curated live music event listings provide a vital alternative to addictive social media platforms. • We believe that making live music more visible and accessible encourages in-person interaction, strengthening communities and alleviating loneliness and social isolation. • We believe that local live music listings are a critical component of strong local economies, helping to lessen the negative economic consequences of big tech and music industry monopolies.

---

"Technology has a purpose, and that purpose is to do good and to share" --Steve Wozniak

reply

	
retrocog 3 hours ago | parent | next [–]

Agreed and this is an awesome project. We need more of this. Social Media <==> Real World
reply

	
nathan_compton 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Ban advertising based business models.
reply

	
gadders 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

Alcohol.
reply

	
worldsavior 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Being happy with yourself and being OK that you're not advancing anymore (you're just happy and don't have anything to pursue), or raising a family. The only two ways.
reply

	
AndrewDucker 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

"Who don't feel that they can join any local groups"
There's your problem. Fix that.

If there aren't any local groups then help create one. If there are, go along, meet some people, see what works for you, join a different one if you didn't like the first one, keep going until you've found your people.

If you feel like you can't go to a group then create a support group for people who feel like they can't go to groups. Or go online and find the virtual space for people like you and then travel to see those people (or invite them to see you).

But there is no fix for you having to socialise if you're lonely. You're going to have to find a way in.

reply

	
freedomben 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I think people in general need to stop letting differences rip them apart from each other. I've seen countless friendships crumble over stupid things like politics. (I'm not saying politics is stupid overall, but I do think it's stupid to let it affect a relationship, except in extreme situations). I'm not talking about the Neo-Nazi who openly expresses hatred towards other races, or the extreme other end who insists that anything other than full throated and vocal activism makes you a bad person. Those people are toxic and should be avoided. IME that's like 1% of the population if not less.
Social media has (IMHO) exacerbated this by allowing us to selectively surround ourselves with people we know we'll agree with. It's a nice reprieve sometimes, but it's so, so unhealthy beyond short-term.

Also talking to people in-person is very important. The less you do it, the harder it is, but it's worth doing. The natural humanizing effect of conversing with a person in meat-space does wonders for increasing understanding. Don't talk about topics you disagree on, focus on agreements and common interests. A good friend of mine is a trans-woman married to a woman. She decided to get into target shooting and approached others in good faith, and she said something like (not a direct quote): "I was worried they would be assholes, but it turns out they're just nerds like me, they just love to kit out their rigs".

Another friend of mine fell into the right-wing youtube rabbit-hole and "infiltrated" an Antifa group. He's a good guy overall, but got a very clouded exposure to "the other side." After he was done, he said something like (not a direct quote) "I was actually really surprised at how accepting, respectful, and intellectual most of them were. We wouldn't agree on politics, but they were a lot more interested in real analysis and dealing in facts than I ever would have thought, and we ended up having some good conversations."

Yes there are going to be assholes out there, but give people a chance before jumping to conclusions. You might be surprised! Don't jump in the deep end all at once, and be mindful of personal danger and comfort-level, but don't be so afraid to reach out to humans (in-person) and try to connect, even if you think on the surface there's no way you could get along.

reply

	
epolanski 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I would suggest for the crowd here: tech meetups, even online ones and communities will connect you to people with your interests.
Another thing that you'll likely find in your area is a chess club.

Maybe you won't love the chess itself, but it's an excuse to hang out with people.

Another one is volunteering work. Elderly, dogs, etc, many communities need help.

In my village I have started a "clean up" program where average citizens take few bags a picker and we clean areas of our village.

Most of people are "this is the job of the garbage collectors, the mayor should do it", so what? It also costs money, and nobody will do as carefully as the people living there.

Even if 95% of my village won't care few will and we make an impact and socialize, etc and more start taking part of it.

reply

	
mghackerlady 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I have 2 answers to this, depending on how you define "loneliness epidemic"
Genuine loneliness, like what you described, can only really be solved by touching grass. Figure out your hobbies, or find one if you don't have any.

My answer to what a lot of people call "the male loneliness epidemic" as a woman is to say it doesn't exist, you need to figure out how to be attractive. We aren't throwing ourselves on shitty men, and most of the men that complain are complaining because they feel entitled to us and thus put no effort into being attractive. The quickest way to be attractive is have empathy and not be a douche. Listen to peoples needs, and don't feel entitled to our attention

reply

	
eternauta3k 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

> The quickest way to be attractive is have empathy and not be a douche.
This would suggest most people are attractive. Is an empathic non-asshole really attractive, even without other things that make him interesting (e.g. travel experiences or interesting takes on things)?

reply

	
bragh 3 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

If those people got a haircut, brushed their teeth and took a shower, they would be attractive!
reply

	
999900000999 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I was going to post this somewhere else, but I think this story fits.
An old guy approached me and said "put the music on my phone mann".

Alright.

My response: "Search on YouTube"

He keeps insisting on ME doing it for him.

3 steps

First his data was off. For presumably a while he's had his data off ( it's metro PCs so it's prepaid anyway) and I guess he was relying on WiFi.

Ok.

One click to fix that in the Android tile menu.

His Bluetooth was off too.

Turn that on. Turn on his headphones. Luckily it was already paired.

Finally I had to open YouTube and find music for him.

3 or 4 steps.

Now he's happily listening to music.

But beyond that, he got to introduce himself to me, and I guess the next time he accidentally turns off his data he can ask for help again.

I also like to help people.

Old people are awesome when it comes to this. They'll just ask someone to help them out, that's how you build community.

Don't know how to change your oil ? Cool Billy's a car guy he can help you out. Having trouble with your water pressure, maybe Sarah's a plumber and she can help.

Of course if something serious you're still going to be expected to pay these people, but if it's something quick they'll help you free of charge. Maybe you'll bake them a cake for their kids birthday.

I recall when I was young a neighbor basically gave my mom a car. It was an absolute piece of crap, and out of the goodness of his heart he would come and fix it every now and then.

I didn't realize it as a kid, but if you're passionate about cars and you get the emotional satisfaction of both helping a neighbor and seeing how long you can keep that old car running, that's its own reward.

How many of you would love for a non technical neighbor to say their computer is slow. I recall someone on HN even offering to send out a free laptop to someone in need.

Traditionally communities would have a blacksmith or a baker. That's what that person did and they had a status tied to it.

In modern economic systems what exactly we do is so abstracted away from anything meaningful we lack this connection.

On a very fundamental level people need to feel needed.

TLDR: Help others.

reply

	
teeklp 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Idk, probably some kind of app.
reply

	
diggyhole 1 hour ago | prev | next [–]

Church.
reply

	
oulipo2 28 minutes ago | prev | next [–]

Burn capitalism to the ground?
reply

	
steele 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Volunteer
reply

	
genericacct 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Universal Basic Tokens allowance?
reply

	
puskavi 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

stop inventing and endorsing divisive ideas
reply

	
publicdebates 2 hours ago | parent | next [–]

I can't promise I'll try, but I'll try to try.
reply

	
moezd 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Make as many third places as you can. People need to get out to do other things than work, and these should be low cost activities. If you introduce subscriptions and then ramp up prices, then you are the scum of the world.
reply

	
newsclues 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Learn to use smartphones as tools, not as all consuming attention sinks.
reply

	
dymk 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

Learn to use meth responsibly, how hard could it be…
reply

	
throwaway456754 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

together
reply

	
tonymet 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Telos
reply

	
RIMR 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

In the USA, the loneliness epidemic is compounded by isolation. A large portion of our society has moved into suburban communities that are largely impersonal. There is very little in the way of in-person community outside of churches or political movements that only certain kinds of people want to be involved with.
With the Internet giving us the ability to interact with our chosen niche with little effort, we are willing to accept this still-impersonal alternative to our stagnant communities.

I have found that, as a city-dweller, I benefit from separating myself from social media and going out into the world looking for more personal connections, but this is somewhat of a privilege afforded to those people who live in more densely populated areas. Even then, my distance from social media can sometimes be a handicap when you interact with people who are still reliant on it to coordinate everything.

For most people, the social opportunities that existed in the 70's through the 90's simply doesn't exist anymore. If you aren't using social media, you're practically being anti-social, but there is something inherently anti-social about social media to begin with, so you're screwed if you do and screwed if you don't.

reply

	
publicdebates 2 hours ago | parent | next [–]

> the social opportunities that existed in the 70's through the 90's simply doesn't exist anymore
Does it have to be that way?

Is there a way to bring back "the social outdoors" of those days? To recreate it?

reply

	
insane_dreamer 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Not with technology.
reply

	
colechristensen 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Organize things.
Start a bowling league, a DnD group, a book club, a charitable organization... whatever.

Have a dinner party. Join the chess club. Start or join a sports league.

Many of these community events aren't happening because nobody has created them yet and it might just be up to you to do it.

Part of the loneliness epidemic is somebody actually has to initiate things and not enough people do. YOU can do it.

reply

	
NoMoreNicksLeft 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

We (reading this) can't do anything. An enlightened government might set policy in such ways as to fix this over the course of decades, but I don't even seen that being acknowledged as possible or desirable in those same decades. The problem will continue to deteriorate until it becomes catastrophic.
reply

	
ArtDev 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

In person RPGs, tabletop wargames and boardgames are amazing for geek culture. Thanks to local Discord groups, I have an active nerd community that I play games with at least once a week. This has revolutionized by social life!
There is a introverted crafty side of painting and 3D printing miniatures that works great for me too.

These games all work as essentially offline alternatives to videogames and are way more fun!

Also, my local game store serves beer; so its essentially a nerd bar even though most people don't drink.

Wargaming related references: Tabletop Minions on YouTube, The HiveScum podcast, Companies such as Black Site Studios and Conferences such as Adepticon.

Go look these up!

reply

	
b65e8bee43c2ed0 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

undo urbanization, education, and technology. retvrn to monke.
reply

	
idontwantthis 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

To paraphrase Barney Stinson:
When I'm feeling lonely, I stop feeling lonely and feel awesome instead.

There are lots of good suggestions in here. People just need to go do them. And if there are structural impediments to doing them, then eliminate those impediments.

I wasn't getting out enough during the day because I share the car with my wife. So I bought an EBike and now I go out all the time.

I chose to live in a place with things near by that I can go to.

Whenever I'm thinking, I'd like to go do an activity, but I need something else first, it's usually not true, or the other thing I need is easy to get.

People just need to decide to stop doing things that make them unhappy.

reply

	
stronglikedan 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

go volunteer. they're needed everywhere. problem solved. most able-bodied lonely people are that way because they can't be arsed to get off the damn couch. they would just rather discuss loneliness on social media. I can't be arsed either, but I don't feel lonely when I'm alone, which is the majority of the time.
reply

	
cpursley 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Easy, same as obesity and environmental problems: fix the built environment by building places for humans, not cars. It all stems from that in North America.
reply

	
reaperducer 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

It's so interesting to see the tech community all angsty about the loneliness epidemic.
20 years ago, the Pope warned of the coming "epidemic of loneliness" that the tech industry would bring us, and the tech industry laughed at him. They said he was just an old man who didn't understand and that technology would bring us together in unity and happiness.

And yet, here we are 20 years later, and hardly a day goes by that someone doesn't submit an article to HN about loneliness.

reply

	
JumpinJack_Cash 5 hours ago | prev | next [–]

The deeper you get the lonlier you get.
And that can happen even when you are among 1000s of people, not just alone , if you are among people thinking of something else, staring into the void or that you can't connect etc. you are a deep person.

Deep person + deep thinker is the worse. Also people aren't doing them any favor by singing the praise of being a deep person and a deep thinker.

It also has to do with abundance of everything and being not in need of cooperating 24/7/365 to avoid starving ....some people slip into deep thinking and deep emotional introspection...yeah fuck that

reply

	
publicdebates 5 hours ago | parent | next [–]

I know homeless people and rich people, equally lonely and unfulfilled and unhappy. I don't know what the solution is. I'm trying to figure it out. But I know that throwing money at this problem does little to solve it. I know from experience.
reply

	
jdprgm 55 minutes ago | prev | next [–]

I've been thinking recently about the scale at which it seems the vast vast majority of people participate in close to zero public discussion online and what a bummer it is.
Basically all discussion platforms are broken for any sort of long term meaningful discussion which I think is at least part of the problem. Even this thread and this comment just the fact that the thread is now 4 hours old the amount of views and chance of getting many responses drops precipitously. On most platforms unless you are someone with a large following you basically have to think like a marketer and post often and early on posts to stand a chance of getting a discussion going. It's always so ephemeral too. Even though posts on a platform like HN on reddit still exist and you can comment on old threads probably 99% of the activity happens in the first 6 or so hours and then it largely ends.

It makes me miss forums where at least you had long lived threads with simple time based post order and a good chance of replies. This doesn't seem to exist on only platforms now and forums have largely faded away.

The fragmentation of discussion has also messed things up. For example yesterday I was listening to a HardFork podcast episode which is a fairly popular pod, topping the charts in at least the tech category, and after listening I wanted to check for discussion around the episode and probably leave a comment or two. I assume this episode had to have gotten at least in the low tens of thousands of plays though perhaps that is way off. I went searching for discussion and basically found a largely dead subreddit for the podcast with no threads being regularly created for the episode and an empty comment section on nytimes which any site comment section is a useless place for discussion anyways. The pod is also posted on youtube which the youtube comment section had the most activity of anything I found but the youtube comment section and the way it is structured/operates is perhaps the most useless of all the platforms for trying to have any discussion. I just don't understand how if at least say ten thousand people listened to the episode surely at least 1% would be interested in discussing it and 100+ people going back and forth would be a large, active, healthy discussion somewhere.

Even threads that seem "active" on sites like HN or Reddit in the context of the actual audience sizes are shockingly small and confuse me. For example The Pitt season 2 just premiered and posted 5.4 million viewers, the subreddit post ep discussion currently has 5.3k comments which is quite high for a show. That is a joke of a percentage though, 0.1%! and even worse in the context of people that are posting probably post more than once in the thread. I understand many and even most people not wanting to post to discuss a show they just watched but how the hell is less than 1 in a thousand!

This post got long which also damages the chance of any engagement due to TLDR culture.

reply

	
KittenInABox 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

I think part of the problem is that social media is normalized and it is easy. It is way easier to engage socially (or at least you feel like you're engaging socially) with likes and lurking and stuff. It is way harder to put on pants and go out and it is normalized to do so (phrasing like bedrotting is super casual, whereas it is actually really hard to maintain an eating disorder because you have to be constantly hiding it from people).
Also I think there's more groups whose social norms online teach you to be repulsive offline and again there's not enough social pushback against it. We do need to be harder on casual edginess online because it is teaching habitual behaviors that make it hard to engage socially. Your 50 year old hiking buddy is not going to understand your soycuck joke you are trying to show him on your phone. Your average wine mom at women-only book club is not going to love if you insist on talking about banning trans people from the club because they're "men invading the women's spaces" especially when there's very likely 0 trans people to exclude in the first place on account of trans people being rare.

Lastly there is usually a ton of stuff happening but the instructions on how to engage with it is nebulous. People who know the algorithm find it easy, the people who don't know the algorithm find it super hard. And IDK how to solve that because there's so much going on in people's heads that they don't realize the people around them seriously aren't scrutinizing them that much. There's like a socialization death spiral where every small awkward interaction hurts way more when you don't have enough experience to know that the small awkward interactions are normal. So you can't tell someone "just go to book club" because they'll go, have 1 normal situation like mishearing someone and then decide they are so embarrassed they can never go to book club again-- but since it is so normal it happens at every social event and they end up lonely.

reply

	
publicdebates 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

You actually bring up the biggest obstacle to my tentative idea for this Sunday, of holding up a sign that points to a time/place for a casual conversation with strangers. I thought this would be a good way to get very lonely passers-by out of their comfort zone and into a situation where they have a chance to make friends and bond, but the absolute diversity of interests is the main show stopper. My first thought was to essentially avoid sensitive topics on the poster, such as religion and politics, but it still leaves the huge diversity of potential common interests open. So I started doing some research on the most common hobbies that people have in cities and that can be talked about casually, in hopes of finding like 5 ot 6 to write on the sign to get people into the coffee shop.
reply

	
AnimalMuppet 6 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Why do they feel they can't join any local groups? Fix that.
reply

	
parpfish 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

i wonder if a resurgence in social clubs like the Elks club/Moose lodge would ever catch on.
i don't know how big they ever were in the past, but it seemed like it was commonly represented in media in the 50s/60s (e.g., the flintstones had a parody of the lodge which would suggest that they were common enough that people were familiar)

reply

	
publicdebates 6 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

I posted a comment that gives a few of my thoughts as to why. How do you propose those problems be solved?
reply

	
AnimalMuppet 6 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Well, first, props to you because you're actually doing something to initiate contact. That's a really big deal; more people need to do that. (Maybe even some that don't wrestle with loneliness.)
But what's you're next step? Someone comes up and marks that they feel really lonely. Do you get contact information? Invite them to something? (Invite them to what? You may have to create something - a board game night at your house, or a "lonely people shopping together" time at a grocery store, or something. You probably have to create that "something", because you're the one who's able to at least reach out, and the ones who are responding probably aren't there yet.)

You're finding people that need something. The next step is to find a way to connect them - with you, or with each other, or with someone.

For any activity you come up with, some people won't be able to, due to time or temperament or personality or something. So maybe what you need is more than one. (Eventually. Look, don't get overwhelmed by that. Just one is the next step, in my view. And maybe some helpers.)

reply

	
publicdebates 5 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

So your proposal is to start an ad hoc friend group with people who come up to me, and try to become friends with them personally?
I'm not sure I'm the right person for that. I live in a suburb, not the city that I do the surveys in. And I'm extraordinarily boring, and too old.

It seems that I should try to think bigger. Try to find a way to help these people connect with each other. Something in person, not an app like Hinge. Maybe, hold a sign that says ad hoc meet and greet at such and such time and place, after collecting a list of common interests and putting those interests on the same sign that says the time and date. That could work.

reply

	
notenoughhorses 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

In my city, an older guy organized an “urban hiking group” where he would plan walking routes through the city, usually stopping at a restaurant for brunch. It was very popular, but probably a lot of work. He was semi-retired, so he had the time to do it. He did research to have talking points on the history of some spots we passed, like a tour guide.
It was a great low key meet up. You didn’t have to make friends with the organizer. If you were walking with someone you didn’t really like in the group, it was easy to drift to talk to someone else.

reply

	
scythe 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Step one might be to stop calling it the loneliness epidemic. Loneliness is an emotion, isolation is a condition, and we might even expect that if people felt lonely more often they would try harder to be social and actually be less isolated. This is also a network effect: my reaction to my loneliness affects someone else's loneliness if I go talk to them (or not).
reply

	
snovymgodym 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Move to Latin America
reply

	
GrowingSideways 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Lobby to shut down social media that doesn't encourage real life interaction. I honestly think things will keep getting worse until we unplug them.
reply

	
platevoltage 3 hours ago | parent | next [–]

I remember when Facebook was used to promote and estimate attendance for local punk shows. That ship definitely sailed.
reply

	
some_furry 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

There is no easy solution to this problem. It's a conflux of many factors. (There are no more "third spaces". Too much rent-seeking behavior. The centralization of platforms consolidates power and creates inertia. The dopamine-hacking of recommendation algorithms. Social media in general.)
https://soatok.blog/2025/09/16/are-you-under-the-influence-t...

I've written at length about related topics. Unfortunately, there are powerful invested interests in keeping things shitty. It's often critiqued as "capitalism is bad" but we're seeing today is better described as techno-feudalism than capitalism.

reply

	
anal_reactor 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]

IMO it is not possible. The world has changed. Until modernity, people made connections out of economic necessity. Either you get a wife or have fun farming by yourself - literally it doesn't work so you die. Either you're friends with the baker or you don't get bread or get absolute shittiest-quality goods and you die. And so on. Shut-ins didn't exist because it was physically impossible to survive without leaving your room. No UberEats, no Amazon Prime, no remote work, no internet.
When the economic necessity to form relationships with others disappeared, the naked truth was exposed - most people don't fucking like each other. Yes, when you're starving to death you'll be friends with the guy who has potatoes, but when you can buy the damn potatoes yourself in the supermarket, you're not going to tolerate his smelly ass.

Most friendships form over common participation in a project. Doing something together, knowing that you have to put up with the other one to achieve higher goals. Without those goals, there are no incentives to deal with others. And what goals am I supposed to have if by doing nothing I already have a roof above my head, full fridge, clean house, and an entire library of video games?

Think about the main message of feminism: "Girl, you can make it in life without a man. Don't settle for an aggressive alcoholic just because that's the only option. You can do it yourself.". It perfectly captures how forming relationships turned from an asset into a liability.

reply

	
incomingpain 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

Loneliness epidemic started 30+ years ago. There were books written in the 90s about it(bowling alone). Nothing modern can be blamed on it. If anything, social media is helping the crisis; not causing.
The 'fixes' has been established for just as long. My nearby 'community centre' was built in 1987. Has this been successful at all? Not in the least bit.

The reality of what is causing this hasnt changed. Without fixing this key problem, the crisis obviously has continued for 30+ years. I'm not nostradamus here. However, from many previous conversations it's crazy how absolutely nobody is ready to talk about the cause. They'd rather just call it a paradox or feign ignorance for why this is happening. Honestly it's rather conspiratorial creating when you think about it.

Out of curiousity I asked what gemini 3 pro thinks.

1. Revival of third places.

As if that hasnt been tried for 30+ years... fail.

2. replacing 'socializing' with "service"

The idea is that cleaning a park will somehow make you less lonely is laughable at best.

3. Bridging the generational gap.

Elderly teach the young skills? while youth teach digital literacy. My community centre literally has this. F mark.

4. Urban design and walkability.

We need to spend trillions of dollars to completely redesign and rebuild cities? lol what.

5. digital hygiene

social media is a sedative? crazy.

I love gemini, but man they are getting it so wrong. All of this will likely just caused the crisis to be worse in my opinion.

To me, has this been done unintentionally through the typical 'road to hell is paved with good intentions' or has this been intentionally done and maintained? The refusal to acknowledge the cause seems to push toward intentional. Guess we just live with the loneliness epidemic.

reply

	
10xDev 1 hour ago | parent | next [–]

LLMs are always going to output the median answer you would find on the web. That's why they are almost always mediocre in their response.
reply

	
lbrito 2 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

>4. Urban design and walkability.
>We need to spend trillions of dollars to completely redesign and rebuild cities? lol what.

That doesn't mean the point is wrong.

The US bet on the wrong urban planning ideas, and now it is facing the consequences. This is not unique to the US; other places have fallen into the same trap.

reply

	
nemomarx 3 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

What is the cause in your view, then?
reply

	
micromacrofoot 2 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

This feels overly cynical and reductive. A problem existing for 30 years doesn’t mean modern forces haven’t made it worse or changed its shape. Bowling Alone didn’t argue “nothing can help,” it showed that social participation declined as work hours grew, commutes lengthened, communities hollowed out, and institutions lost funding.
Those trends didn’t stop in the 90s, they accelerated! I lived through it myself. Social media isn’t the sole cause, but it clearly displaces time, lowers the incentive to show up in person, and offers connection without obligation.

Saying “community centers existed in 1987” misses the point... they stopped working when participation stopped being the default and became optional, inconvenient, and socially risky. People feel worn out and get "good enough" at home... so they choose the poor substitute. This also mirrors american food consumption habits.

This doesn’t require a conspiracy. It’s an emergent outcome of optimizing society for efficiency, mobility, and consumption instead of continuity and belonging. Service, third places, walkability, and intergenerational spaces aren’t magic fixes... and loneliness isn’t solved by “hanging out,” it’s solved by repeated, role-based, low-friction interaction where people are needed. We all but know how to fix this problem, there are piles of research behind it.

The real failure isn’t that these ideas were tried, it’s that we stripped away the economic and cultural structures that made them functional at all, then declared them ineffective. Pretending that nothing structural can help just guarantees the problem.

reply

	
moomoo11 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

You can't.
It is up to them to change. They won't change, and this "loneliness epidemic" is starting to become really fucking annoying. It is almost a grift now to shit on tech by mids.

These people don't want to go outside or engage with other people.

It is like people who are drug/alcohol/tobacco/gambling/sex/etc addicts. It is up to the individual to change. How is it anyone else's responsibility?

I surveyed a bunch of people on reddit, discords, etc. a couple years ago to figure out why people are lonely, back when this whole "loneliness" movement was starting.

A lot of these people say they have "trauma" or some other mental block as a primary reason why they're lonely (btw they're in discords with thousands of people, and playing online games with OTHER PEOPLE). I'm sorry but everyone has shit going on in their lives. You aren't really that special.

Maybe 1-5% of people have dealt with actual, really horrific trauma, and even they have managed to go on to have fulfilling lives. They chose to move on.

I'm an asshole, no doubt, and I've dealt with my own traumas in the past that were honestly way more fucking horrible than "I'm shy" or "nobody likes [insert some esoteric niche]" and guess what? Who cares? Go outside.

There is no helping these people, or anyone to be honest, unless they really want to make a change. These aren't starving Sudanese or people who live in India or something where you can't just "go outside". Mfs be in CALIFORNIA and crying. I'd understand if they were lonely because they were living in Iraq or Venezuela or something.

The only solution is we build a Matrix, and put all these people into it. I will bet 100% of my net worth and any earnings from my entire lineage for perpetuity that they will still fucking complain and be lonely. I was really hopeful for metaverse, too bad but maybe there's still a chance.

I never want to hear about "loneliness epidemic" again, to me it just sounds like DEI/ESG/Eacc and other bs grifting now to hate on tech. Everything is a choice. You press A in a video game even though you're lonely, why not press A to go outside?

These people aren't lonely, they exist in massive online echo chambers with other people. And honestly? I think they like it. Most drug addicts loved being on drugs even though it was a horrific existence. They don't like it when they're narcan'd during OD. But when they decide to get clean, I am proud that they actually did it how amazing is that? SO these lonely people have to stop crying and step outside.

reply

	
riversflow 3 hours ago | prev | next [–]

on the topic of platonic friendship, I couldn’t disagree more with a lot of the comments. I have plenty of friends yet I don’t do clubs and will never, ever do organized religion. People advising it are religious freaks in my opinion. Some of my best friends took this advice to go to church and bible study. They complain every time I see them about the people in their church. Meanwhile I’ve made more and better friends online. Its not hard, get on social media, find an influencer/streamer that matches your vibes and go jump into the official or adjacent discord community and play video games with people in that community. If you engage in active listening and are a decent person, you will easily make plenty of friends. Additionally, I think in person hangouts are kinda mid, but I hangout with my friends in-person (at a minimum) every other day when I weight lift. Like seriously, I often would rather chill in Discord than go and hang out in-person.
To me the male loneliness epidemic is more about a lack of ability to find meaningful romantic relationships. I’ve been thinking about this a lot, and as somebody who has been doing online dating since it essentially started, I am pretty sure that the problem (or at least a major piece) is that match group has commodified romantic relationships.

I know a lot of people will focus on meeting people in public or whatever, but it has been my experience that dating has become completely garbage and a large part is because all of the current popular dating apps disallow index search and funnel you into swiping. From a mate selection perspective this makes no sense. Not only does it muddy the waters about who is actually a real match, but it also does psychic damage to make so many shallow judgements.

Back before match group bought OkCupid, I used to have excellent results finding people their who shared a lot of common ground with, messaging them with a thoughtful message, and going on dates. Swiping is an absolute crap shoot, and often I feel like I am being used.

reply

	
notepad0x90 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

from what I've looked into, on an individual level, the main thing I need to do is learn how to be a good company for others. Be for other strangers what I would want them to be for me. But it's easier said then done.
From a practical perspective, there is the whole "3rd place" issue. How can I open a business that caters to the public, who will just sit there and loiter on their phones and laptops all day and be profitable. Starbucks sort of did it in the 90s, but they're not tolerating that anymore.

Forget businesses, can you walk to a park, a beach, a hiking trail on a whim and run into people? Can you hold events, watch parties,etc.. on public places easily like that? It's not easy at all these days.

I blame cars. I despise the idea that electric cars are the replacement to cars, without considering changing transportation so that it is more efficient with trams, trains,etc... The side-effect of that is you run into strangers on public transport. This doesn't just affect the loneliness epidemic, it is in my opinion a direct cause of cardiovascular diseases and diabetes, and of course obesity. You can't even be homeless and sleep on the streets these days. Even the park benches are built to be hostile to anyone that wants to chill there for too long.

Society was restructured between 1950s-1980s so that it is suburbanized. It's all about the family unit, single family homes, freeways and roads built to facilitate single family homes (after WW2, starting families was all the rage, plus white-flight didn't help). Shopping centers built to cater to consumers driving from their suburban homes. Malls you can walk in, after you drove some time to park there. Even when you buy food items at grocery stores, pay attention to serving sizes, it is improving a little, but you'll see at minimum a serving size of two typically.

Society was deliberately engineered so that you have more reasons to spend more as a consumer. Families spend more per-capita. suburbs mean more houses purchased, entire generations renting with their bank as a landlord via mortgages, home repair, home insurance, car insurance, car repairs, gas stations for cars where you can get the most unhealthy things out there in the most frequented and convenient places. Make kids, make wives, make ex-wives, get sick the whole lot of you for hospitals, health insurances,etc..

It wasn't planned by some central committees or secret cabal, but it was planned nonetheless by economists and policy makers.

If everyone just got married and had kids, they won't be lonely would they? you don't need to hang out at park with strangers, you'll feel less of a member of your local neighborhood who look and think like you, and start thinking more as one people.

All the interpersonal interactions and opportunities to build relationships with people are commercialized and controlled.

For one reason or another, people are just not getting married in their early 20's anymore, or having that many kids later on like before. Even when you get married, your interaction is by design with other married people, who are busy commuting in their cars to and fro work, kids school,kids sports, plays,etc... imagine taking your kids on busses and trains every day to these places which are fairly near-by, by necessity. you'll be spending time with them instead of operating machinery. They'll be meeting stranger kids from other schools, seeing random strangers all the time, you'll be talking to randos as you walk to the train, wait on the bus,etc.. but this can't be monetized.

Blame the economists and policy makers if you want to blame someone.

If you want solutions, let's talk explicitly about the policy changes that need to happen.

Too much traffic? tear down the freeways instead of building more lanes.

It costs $10B to build a simple metro line? pass better laws to regulate bidding and costs, investigate fraud and waste.

But to dig even deeper into the root of the matter, look at what is celebrated and prized in society. Most of its ills come from there. For most Americans, it is inconceivable to be able to just go out of your house without any plans or destination in mind and just start walking and see where you end up, and who you run into. That's a crucial and tragic ability that's been lost. We really have more urgent things to address to be fair, but ultimately, this can only be solved one small step at a time, but also big sweeping changes are needed. The first step is to define and accept what the problem is, and where the blame and cause lie.

reply

	
lbrito 2 hours ago | parent | next [–]

>Blame the economists and policy makers if you want to blame someone.
I wouldn't go as far as blaming, but American society should at least acknowledge their responsibility for this. Its not like the KGB imposed zoning laws in Texas. You (Americans) did. Americans chose the urban model they wanted.

reply

	
notepad0x90 32 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Well the KGB are not economists, so you're right I guess. It was economists and war hawks, suburbanism was also desired because it makes cities a harder target for nukes. Like I said, it wasn't some secret cabal. But there are academics and policy makers behind it. it's important because we have academics and policy makers now too.
reply

	
kylehotchkiss 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

build another software platform
/s

This community is not going to be the one to solve that problem, sorry.

reply

	
publicdebates 4 hours ago | parent | next [–]

HN has some odd people that don't jump to tech solutions for everything. Plus I'm banned from reddit for 3 days for making a dark joke, and besides, my reddit post asking the same thing went nowhere. At least people here engage in good faith and depth.
reply

	
fsckboy 1 hour ago | root | parent | next [–]

i want to hear the joke
reply

	
publicdebates 49 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

Someone said he said something rude in front of his friend, and is worried she will think badly about him, and asked what to do to fix it.
I said there's no turning back now, time to double down, call her fat and ugly, and punch her dog.

Banned for 3 days for advocating violence.

reply

	
fsckboy 21 minutes ago | root | parent | next [–]

there are way worse calls to violence every day on reddit! except I guess fat-shaming is also violence
reply

	
pixelpoet 4 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

I actually wanted to suggest government funded online dating, so we aren't beholden to godawful Tinder and its clones (OkCupid was great for me until it got bought out and turned into Tinder).
reply

	
kylehotchkiss 4 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

I have a slightly different angle on that - Government mandated open algorithms, exposure of sort factors (are you in the back of the line in the swipe queue), and monthly disclosure of male/female ratios. Yeah, it'll effectively crush their business models and then they actually need to start solving the problems they've created (extreme superficiality, not background checking users, not addressing bots, not acknowledging that US has an implicit class system)
I'm trying to figure out if I have enough energy to try to pitch this to my representatives office, but I don't know if 30-40% adults never marrying or falling birth rates would be arguments that democratic politician would care to act upon.

reply

	
platevoltage 3 hours ago | root | parent | prev | next [–]

OkCupid was great before it got turned into a swiping app. Such a shame.
reply

	
28304283409234 4 hours ago | prev | next [–]

No. We are too busy worrying about an invading USA.
reply

	
bluedino 3 hours ago | prev [–]

The people who push "no hello" on their co-workers and want to stay home all day are lonely now. Shucks.
reply

	
StevePerkins 2 hours ago | parent [–]

"Don't talk about your kids at work, it's off-putting"... then proceeds to talk about their dog every day. :)
Yeah, a lot of this discussion does seem pretty myopic sometimes.

reply





Guidelines | FAQ | Lists | API | Security | Legal | Apply to YC | Contact

Search: 
