Scholastic   学乐出版社

BEFORE BREAKFAST   早餐前

WILBUR   威尔伯

ESCAPE   逃脱

LONELINESS   孤独

CHARLOTTE   夏洛特

SUMMER DAYS   夏日时光

BAD NEWS   坏消息

A TALK AT HOME 
在家谈话

wilbur’s boast   威尔伯的吹嘘

AN EXPLOSION   爆炸

THE MIRACLE   奇迹

A MEETING   会议

GOOD PROGRESS   进展良好

DR. DORIAN   多里安博士

THE CRICKETS   蟋蟀队

OFF TO THE FAIR 
去集市

UNCLE   叔叔

THE COOL OF THE EVENING 
傍晚的凉爽

THE EGG SAC   卵囊

THE HOUR OF TRIUMPH 
胜利时刻

LAST DAY   最后一天

A WARM WIND   暖风

Charlotte’s Weh   夏洛特的韦


Before Breakfast   早餐前

W HERE’S Papa going with that ax?” 
said Fern to her mother as they 
were setting the table for breakfast. 
“Out to the hoghouse,” replied 
Mrs. Arable. “Some pigs were born last night.” 
“爸爸拿着斧子要去哪儿？”弗恩一边和妈妈摆放早餐餐具一边问。“去猪圈，”阿拉布尔太太回答说，“昨晚有几头小猪出生了。”

“I don’t see why he needs an ax,” continued Fern, 
who was only eight. 
“我不明白他为什么需要斧头，”当时只有八岁的费恩继续说道。

“Well,” said her mother, “one of the pigs is a runt. 
It’s very small and weak, and it will never amount to 
anything. So your father has decided to do away with 
it.” 
“嗯，”她母亲说，“其中有一头猪是只瘦弱的小猪。它又小又弱，永远也成不了什么大器。所以你父亲决定把它除掉。”

“Do away with it?” shrieked Fern. “You mean kill 
it? Just because it’s smaller than the others?” 
“把它除掉？”弗恩尖叫道，“你是说要杀死它？就因为它比其他的都小？”

Mrs. Arable put a pitcher of cream on the table. 
“Don’t yell, Fern!” she said. “Your father is right. The 
pig would probably die anyway.” 
阿拉布尔太太把一壶奶油放在桌上。“别喊了，弗恩！”她说。“你爸爸说得对。那头猪反正可能也会死。”

Fern pushed a chair out of the way and ran outdoors. 
The grass was wet and the earth smelled of springtime. 
Fern’s sneakers were sopping by the time she caught 
up with her father. 
弗恩推开椅子，跑到外面。草地湿漉漉的，泥土散发着春天的气息。等她追上父亲时，弗恩的运动鞋已经湿透了。

“Please don’t kill it!” she sobbed. “It’s unfair.” 
“求求你们别杀它！”她抽泣着说，“这不公平。”

Mr. Arable stopped walking. 
阿拉布尔先生停下了脚步。

“Fern,” he said gently, “you will have to learn to 
control yourself.” 
“费恩，”他温和地说，“你必须学会​​控制自己。”

“Control myself?” yelled Fern. “This is a matter of 
life and death, and you talk about controlling myself.” 
“控制自己？”费恩喊道，“这可是生死攸关的大事，你居然还说要控制自己！”

Tears ran down her cheeks and she took hold of the ax 
and tried to pull it out of her father’s hand. 
泪水顺着她的脸颊流了下来，她抓住斧头，试图把它从父亲手中夺走。

“Fern,” said Mr. Arable, “I know more about raising 
a litter of pigs than you do. A weakling makes trouble. 
Now run along!” 
“费恩，”阿拉布尔先生说，“我比你更懂怎么养猪。弱者只会惹麻烦。快走吧！”

“But it’s unfair,” cried Fern. “The pig couldn’t help 
being born small, could it? If 7 had been very small at 
birth, would you have killed me ?” 
“但这不公平，”弗恩哭喊道，“猪生来个小又不是它自己选的，对吧？如果7号出生时个头很小，你们会杀了我吗？”

Mr. Arable smiled. “Certainly not,” he said, looking 
down at his daughter with love. “But this is different. 
A little girl is one thing, a little runty pig is another.” 
阿拉布尔先生笑了。“当然不是，”他低头慈爱地看着女儿说，“但这不一样。小女孩是一回事，小猪仔又是另一回事。”

“I see no difference,” replied Fern, still hanging on 
to the ax. “This is the most terrible case of injustice I 
ever heard of.” 
“我看不出有什么区别，”弗恩一边说着，一边仍然紧紧握着斧头。“这是我听过的最骇人听闻的冤案。”

A queer look came over John Arable’s face. He 
seemed almost ready to cry himself. 
约翰·阿拉布尔脸上露出一种奇怪的神情，他似乎快要哭出来了。

“AH right,” he said. “You go back to the house and 
I will bring the runt when I come in. I’ll let you start 
it on a bottle, like a baby. Then you’ll see what trouble 
a pig can be.” 
“啊，对，”他说。“你回屋里去，我回来的时候会把那头小猪带过来。我先让你用奶瓶喂它，就像喂婴儿一样。到时候你就知道猪能有多难搞了。”

When Mr. Arable returned to the house half an 
hour later, he carried a carton under his arm. Fern was 
upstairs changing her sneakers. The kitchen table was 
set for breakfast, and the room smelled of coffee, bacon, 
damp plaster, and wood smoke from the stove. 
半小时后，阿拉布尔先生回到屋里，胳膊下夹着一个纸箱。费恩正在楼上换运动鞋。厨房的餐桌上已经摆好了早餐的餐具，房间里弥漫着咖啡、培根、潮湿的石膏和炉子里飘出的木柴烟味。

“Put it on her chair!” said Mrs. Arable. Mr. Arable 
set the carton down at Fern’s place. Then he walked 
to the sink and washed his hands and dried them on the 
roller towel. 
“把它放在她的椅子上！”阿拉布尔太太说。阿拉布尔先生把纸箱放在弗恩的椅子上。然后他走到水槽边洗了手，用卷筒毛巾擦干。

Fern came slowly down the stairs. Her eyes were 
red from crying. As she approached her chair, the 
carton wobbled, and there was a scratching noise. Fern 
looked at her father. Then she lifted the lid of the car- 
ton. There, inside, looking up at her, was the newborn 
pig. It was a white one. The morning light shone 
through its ears, turning them pink. 
弗恩缓缓走下楼梯，眼睛哭得通红。她走到椅子旁时，纸箱晃动了一下，传来一阵沙沙声。弗恩看了看爸爸，然后掀开纸箱盖。只见里面躺着一只刚出生的小猪，正抬头望着她。它是白色的，晨光透过它的耳朵，把它染成了粉红色。

“He’s yours,” said Mr. Arable. “Saved from an un- 
timely death. And may the good Lord forgive me for 
this foolishness.” 
“他是你的了，”阿拉布尔先生说。“他免于英年早逝。愿上帝宽恕我的愚蠢行为。”

Fern couldn’t take her eyes off the tiny pig. “Oh,” 
she whispered. “Oh, look at him! He’s absolutely per- 
fect.” 
弗恩的目光始终离不开那只小猪。“哦，”她轻声说道，“哦，看看它！它简直完美无瑕。”

She closed the carton carefully. First she kissed her 
father, then she kissed her mother. Then she opened 
the lid again, lifted the pig out, and held it against 
her cheek. At this moment her brother Avery came 
into the room. Avery was ten. He was heavily armed 
— an air rifle in one hand, a wooden dagger in the 
other. 
她小心翼翼地合上纸箱。她先吻了吻父亲，然后吻了吻母亲。接着，她再次打开箱盖，拿出小猪，贴在脸颊上。这时，她的弟弟艾弗里走进了房间。艾弗里十岁，全副武装——一只手拿着气枪，另一只手拿着木匕首。

“What’s that?” he demanded. “What’s Fern got?” 
“那是什么？”他问道，“费恩得了什么？”

“She’s got a guest for breakfast,” said Mrs. Arable. 
“Wash your hands and face, Avery!” 
“她有客人来吃早餐，”阿拉布尔太太说。“艾弗里，洗手洗脸！”

“Let’s see it!” said Avery, setting his gun down. 
“You call that miserable thing a pig? That’s a fine 
specimen of a pig — it’s no bigger than a white rat.” 
“Wash up and eat your breakfast, Avery!” said his 
mother. “The school bus will be along in half an hour.” 
“Can I have a pig, too. Pop?” asked Avery. 
“让我看看！”艾弗里放下枪说，“你管这可怜的家伙叫猪？这猪可真够肥的——跟白老鼠差不多大。”“艾弗里，去洗漱吃早饭！”他妈妈说，“校车半小时后就到了。”“爸爸，我也能养一头猪吗？”艾弗里问。

“No, I only distribute pigs to early risers,” said Mr. 
Arable. “Fern was up at daylight, trying to rid the 
world of injustice. As a result, she now has a pig. A 
small one, to be sure, but nevertheless a pig. It just 
shows what can happen if a person gets out of bed 
promptly. Let’s eat!” 
“不，我只把猪分给早起的人，”阿拉布尔先生说。“弗恩天一亮就起床了，努力消除世间的不公。结果，她现在有了头猪。当然，是头小猪，但毕竟是头猪。这正说明了如果一个人早起，会发生什么。咱们开动吧！”

But Fern couldn’t eat until her pig had had a drink 
of milk. Mrs. Arable found a baby’s nursing bottle and 
a rubber nipple. She poured warm milk into the bottle, 
fitted the nipple over the top, and handed it to Fern. 
“Give him his breakfast!” she said. 
但弗恩得先给她的小猪喝上牛奶才能吃东西。阿拉布尔太太找到一个婴儿奶瓶和一个橡胶奶嘴。她往奶瓶里倒了些温牛奶，把奶嘴套在瓶口，递给弗恩。“喂它吃早饭吧！”她说。

A minute later, Fern was seated on the floor in the 
comer of the kitchen with her infant between her 
knees, teaching it to suck from the bottle. The pig, 
although tiny, had a good appetite and caught on 
quickly. 
一分钟后，弗恩坐在厨房角落的地板上，膝上抱着婴儿，教它用奶瓶喝奶。小猪虽然个头小，但胃口很好，很快就学会了。

The school bus honked from the road. 
校车从路边鸣笛。

“Run!” commanded Mrs. Arable, taking the pig 
from Fern and slipping a doughnut into her hand. 
Avery grabbed his gun and another doughnut. 
“快跑！”阿拉布尔太太命令道，从弗恩手中抢过猪，又塞给她一个甜甜圈。艾弗里抓起枪和另一个甜甜圈。

The children ran out to the road and climbed into 
the bus. Fern took no notice of the others in the bus. 
She just sat and stared out of the window, thinking 
what a blissful world it was and how lucky she was to 
have entire charge of a pig. By the time the bus reached 
school, Fern had named her pet, selecting the most 
beautiful name she could think of. 
孩子们跑到马路上，爬上了校车。弗恩对车上的其他人视而不见，只是坐在那里望着窗外，心想这世界真美好，自己能独自照顾一头猪真是太幸运了。等校车到达学校时，弗恩已经给她的宠物取好了名字，选了一个她能想到的最美的名字。

“Its name is Wilbur,” she whispered to herself. 
“它的名字叫威尔伯，”她低声自语道。

She was still thinking about the pig when the teacher 
said: “Fern, what is the capital of Pennsylvania?” 
她还在想着那头猪，这时老师说：“费恩，宾夕法尼亚州的首府是哪里？”

“Wilbur,” replied Fern, dreamily. The pupils gig- 
gled. Fern blushed. 
“威尔伯，”弗恩梦呓般地回答道。学生们咯咯地笑了起来。弗恩脸红了。

FERN loved Wilbur more than anything. She 
loved to stroke him, to feed him, to put him to 
bed. Every morning, as soon as she got up, she 
warmed his milk, tied his bib on, and held the 
bottle for him. Every afternoon, when the school bus 
stopped in front of her house, she jumped out and ran 
to the kitchen to fix another bottle for him. She fed 
him again at suppertime, and again just before going to 
bed. Mrs. Arable gave him a feeding around noontime 
each day, when Fern was away in school. Wilbur 
loved his milk, and he was never happier than when 
Fern was warming up a bottle for him. He would 
stand and gaze up at her with adoring eyes. 
弗恩最爱威尔伯。她喜欢抚摸他，喂他吃饭，哄他睡觉。每天早上，她一起床就给威尔伯温牛奶，给他系上围兜，然后拿着奶瓶喂他。每天下午，校车停在她家门口时，她就跳下车，跑到厨房再给威尔伯冲奶。晚饭时她会再喂他一次，睡前也会再喂一次。弗恩上学的时候，阿拉布尔太太每天中午会给威尔伯喂一次奶。威尔伯很爱喝牛奶，弗恩给他温奶的时候，他总是最开心的。他会站着，用充满爱慕的眼神仰望着她。

For the first few days of his life, Wilbur was allowed 
to live in a box near the stove in the kitchen. Then, 
when Mrs. Arable complained, he was moved to a big- 
ger box in the woodshed. At two weeks of age, he was 
moved outdoors. It was apple-blossom time, and the 
days were getting warmer. Mr. Arable fixed a small 
yard specially for Wilbur under an apple tree, and 
威尔伯出生后的头几天，被安置在厨房炉灶旁的一个箱子里。后来，阿拉布尔太太抱怨，他才被搬到柴房里一个更大的箱子里。两周大的时候，他被移到了户外。那时正是苹果花盛开的季节，天气也渐渐暖和起来。阿拉布尔先生特意在苹果树下为威尔伯弄了一小块院子，

gave him a large wooden box full of straw, with a 
doorway cut in it so he could walk in and out as he 
pleased. 
给了他一个装满稻草的大木箱，箱子上开了一个门，这样他就可以随意进出。

“Won’t he be cold at night?” asked Fern. 
“他晚上不会冷吗？”弗恩问道。

“No,” said her father. “You watch and see what he 
does.” 
“不，”她父亲说，“你看着他怎么做。”

Carrying a bottle of milk, Fern sat down under the 
apple tree inside the yard. Wilbur ran to her and she 
held the bottle for him while he sucked. When he had 
finished the last drop, he grunted and walked sleepily 
into the box. Fern peered through the door. Wilbur 
was poking the straw with his snout. In a short time 
he had dug a tunnel in the straw. He crawled into the 
tunnel and disappeared from sight, completely cov- 
ered with straw. Fern was enchanted. It relieved her 
mind to know that her baby would sleep covered up, 
and would stay warm. 
弗恩抱着一瓶牛奶，坐在院子里的苹果树下。威尔伯跑到她身边，弗恩帮他拿着奶瓶，他便开始吮吸。喝完最后一滴后，他哼了一声，睡眼惺忪地走进箱子里。弗恩从箱子门缝里往外看。威尔伯正用鼻子拱着稻草。没过多久，他就在稻草里挖了一条隧道。他爬进隧道，消失在弗恩的视线中，完全被稻草盖住了。弗恩欣喜若狂。想到她的宝贝可以盖着毯子睡觉，而且会很暖和，她就放心多了。

Every morning after breakfast, Wilbur walked out 
to the road with Fern and waited with her till the bus 
came. She would wave good-bye to him, and he would 
stand and watch the bus until it vanished around a 
turn. While Fern was in school, Wilbur was shut up 
inside his yard. But as soon as she got home in the 
afternoon, she would take him out and he would 
follow her around the place. If she went into the 
house, Wilbur went, too. If she went upstairs, Wilbur 
would wait at the bottom step until she came down 
again. If she took her doll for a walk in the doll car- 
riage, Wilbur followed along. Sometimes, on these 
journeys, Wilbur would get tired, and Fern would pick 
him up and put him in the carriage alongside the doll. 
He liked this. And if he was very tired, he would close 
his eyes and go to sleep under the doll’s blanket. He 
looked cute when his eyes were closed, because his 
lashes were so long. The doll would close her eyes, too, 
and Fern would wheel the carriage very slowly and 
smoothly so as not to wake her infants. 
每天早餐后，威尔伯都会和弗恩一起走到路边，等着公交车来。弗恩会向他挥手告别，而他则会站在那里，目送公交车消失在拐角处。弗恩上学的时候，威尔伯就被关在院子里。但弗恩下午一回家，就会把他带出来，他会跟着她到处走。弗恩进屋，威尔伯也跟着进去。弗恩上楼，威尔伯就会在台阶下等她下来。弗恩推着娃娃车带娃娃出去散步，威尔伯也会跟着。有时候，威尔伯走累了，弗恩就会把他抱起来，放到娃娃旁边的娃娃车里。他很喜欢这样。如果他很累，就会闭上眼睛，钻进娃娃的毯子里睡觉。他闭着眼睛的样子很可爱，因为他的睫毛很长。娃娃也会闭上眼睛，费恩会非常缓慢平稳地推着婴儿车，以免吵醒她的孩子们。

One warm afternoon. Fern and Avery put on bath- 
ing suits and went down to the brook for a swim. 
Wilbur tagged along at Fern’s heels. When she waded 
into the brook, Wilbur waded in with her. He found 
the water quite cold — too cold for his liking. So while 
the children swam and played and splashed water at 
each other, Wilbur amused himself in the mud along 
the edge of the brook, where it was warm and moist 
and delightfully sticky and oozy. 
在一个温暖的午后，弗恩和艾弗里穿上泳衣，来到小溪边游泳。威尔伯紧跟在弗恩身后。弗恩走进溪水时，威尔伯也跟着进去了。他觉得水很冷——冷得他受不了。于是，当孩子们游泳、玩耍、互相泼水时，威尔伯就在溪边的泥巴里玩耍，那里温暖潮湿，黏糊糊的，让人感觉很舒服。

Every day was a happy day, and every night was 
peaceful. 
每天都是快乐的一天，每个夜晚都很平静。

Wilbur was what farmers call a spring pig, which 
simply means that he was born in springtime. When he 
was five weeks old, Mr. Arable said he was now big 
enough to sell, and would have to be sold. Fern broke 
down and wept. But her father was firm about it. Wil- 
bur’s appetite had increased; he was beginning to eat 
scraps of food in addition to milk. Mr. Arable was not 
willing to provide for him any longer. He had already 
sold Wilbur’s ten brothers and sisters. 
威尔伯是农民们口中的“春猪”，意思是它出生在春天。威尔伯五周大的时候，阿拉布尔先生说它已经长得足够大了，可以卖掉了。弗恩伤心地哭了起来。但她父亲态度坚决。威尔伯的食欲越来越好，除了喝奶，它开始吃一些剩菜剩饭。阿拉布尔先生不愿意再养它了。他已经把威尔伯的十个兄弟姐妹都卖掉了。

“He’s got to go, Fern,” he said. “You have had your 
fun raising a baby pig, but Wilbur is not a baby any 
longer and he has got to be sold.” 
“他必须走，弗恩，”他说。“你养小猪的乐趣已经过去了，但威尔伯不再是小猪了，他必须被卖掉。”

“Call up the Zuckermans,” suggested Mrs. Arable 
to Fern. “Your Uncle Homer sometimes raises a pig. 
And if Wilbur goes there to live, you can walk down 
the road and visit him as often as you like.” 
“给祖克曼家打个电话，”阿拉布尔太太建议弗恩说，“你霍默叔叔有时会养猪。如果威尔伯去他们家住，你就可以沿着路走过去，想看它就看它。”

“How much money should I ask for him?” Fern 
wanted to know. 
“我应该要多少钱才能赎得了他？”费恩想知道。

“Well,” said her father, “he’s a runt. Tell your 
Uncle Homer you’ve got a pig you’ll sell for six 
dollars, and see what he says.” 
“嗯，”她父亲说，“它是个小矮子。你跟你的霍默叔叔说你有一头猪，你想卖六美元，看看他怎么说。”

It was soon arranged. Fern phoned and got her 
Aunt Edith, and her Aunt Edith hollered for Uncle 
Homer, and Uncle Homer came in from the barn and 
talked to Fern. When he heard that the price was only 
six dollars, he said he would buy the pig. Next day 
Wilbur was taken from his home under the apple tree 
and went to live in a manure pile in the cellar of Zuck- 
erman’s barn. 
事情很快就安排好了。弗恩打电话叫来了她的伊迪丝阿姨，伊迪丝阿姨又喊霍默叔叔过来，霍默叔叔从谷仓里出来和弗恩谈了谈。当他听说价格只要六美元时，就说他要买下这头猪。第二天，威尔伯就被从苹果树下的家带走了，送到了祖克曼家谷仓地窖里的粪堆里。

THE BARN was very large. It was very old. 
谷仓很大，也很古老。

It smelled of hay and it smelled of manure. 
It smelled of the perspiration of tired horses 
and the wonderful sweet breath of patient 
cows. It often had a sort of peaceful smell — as though 
nothing bad could happen ever again in the world. It 
smelled of grain and of harness dressing and of axle 
grease and of rubber boots and of new rope. And 
whenever the cat was given a fish-head to eat, the barn 
would smell of fish. But mostly it smelled of hay, for 
there was always hay in the great loft up overhead. 
And there was always hay being pitched down to the 
cows and the horses and the sheep. 
谷仓里弥漫着干草和粪便的气味。它闻起来有疲惫马匹的汗水味，也有温顺奶牛甜美的呼吸味。谷仓里常常弥漫着一种宁静祥和的气息——仿佛世间再无不祥之事。谷仓里有谷物、马具油、车轴润滑油、橡胶靴和新绳子的气味。每当猫咪吃到鱼头，谷仓里就会弥漫着鱼腥味。但谷仓里最主要的气味还是干草味，因为头顶的大阁楼里总是堆满了干草。而且，也总是有干草被撒下来喂牛、喂马、喂羊。

The barn was pleasantly warm in winter when the 
animals spent most of their time indoors, and it was 
pleasantly cool in summer when the big doors stood 
wide open to the breeze. The barn had stalls on the 
main floor for the work horses, tie-ups on the main 
floor for the cows, a sheepfold down below for the 
sheep, a pigpen down below for Wilbur, and it was 
full of all sorts of things that you find in bams: ladders, 
grindstones, pitch forks, monkey wrenches, scythes, 
lawn mowers, snow shovels, ax handles, milk pails, 
water buckets, empty grain sacks, and rust)’ rat traps. 
It was the kind of barn that swallows like to build their 
nests in. It was the kind of barn that children like to 
play in. And the whole thing was owned by Fern’s 
uncle, Air. Homer L. Zuckerman. 
冬天，牲畜们大部分时间都待在谷仓里，谷仓里温暖舒适；夏天，大门敞开，微风拂面，谷仓里凉爽宜人。谷仓一层有马厩，供役畜使用；一层有拴牛的栏杆；下一层是羊圈，供羊群居住；再下一层是猪圈，供威尔伯居住。谷仓里堆满了各种各样的农用工具：梯子、磨石、干草叉、活动扳手、镰刀、割草机、雪铲、斧柄、牛奶桶、水桶、空粮袋，还有生锈的捕鼠器。燕子喜欢在这种谷仓里筑巢，孩子们也喜欢在这种谷仓里玩耍。而这一切，都属于弗恩的叔叔，霍默·L·祖克曼。



Wilbur’s new home was in the lower part of the 
bam, directly underneath the cows. Mr. Zuckerman 
knew that a manure pile is a good place to keep a young 
pig. Pigs need warmth, and it was warm and com- 
fortable down there in the barn cellar on the south 
side. 
威尔伯的新家在猪圈的下层，就在牛棚的正下方。祖克曼先生知道，粪堆是饲养小猪的好地方。猪需要温暖，而南侧猪圈地窖里温暖舒适。

Fern came almost every day to visit him. She found 
an old milking stool that had been discarded, and she 
placed the stool in the sheepfold next to Wilbur’s pen. 
Here she sat quietly during the long afternoons, 
thinkin g and listening and watching Wilbur. The 
sheep soon got to know her and trust her. So did the 
geese, who lived with the sheep. All the animals trusted 
her, she was so quiet and friendly. Mr. Zuckerman did 
not allow her to take Wilbur out, and he did not allow 
her to get into the pigpen. But he told Fern that she 
could sit on the stool and watch Wilbur as long as she 
wanted to. It made her happy just to be near the pig, 
and it made Wilbur happy to know that she was sitting 
there, right outside his pen. But he never had any fun — 
no walks, no rides, no swims. 
弗恩几乎每天都来看望他。她找到一个被丢弃的旧挤奶凳，把它放在羊圈里威尔伯猪圈旁边。漫长的午后，她就静静地坐在那里，思考、倾听、观察威尔伯。羊群很快就认识了她，信任了她。和羊群一起生活的鹅也一样。所有的动物都信任她，因为她安静又友善。祖克曼先生不允许她把威尔伯带出去，也不允许她进猪圈。但他告诉弗恩，她可以坐在凳子上，想看多久就看多久。仅仅是待在猪旁边就让她感到快乐，而威尔伯知道她就坐在猪圈外面，也感到很开心。但他从来没有享受过任何乐趣——没有散步，没有骑车，也没有游泳。

One afternoon in June, when Wilbur was almost 
two months old, he wandered out into his small yard 
outside the barn. Fern had not arrived for her usual 
visit. Wilbur stood in the sun feeling lonely and bored. 
六月的一个下午，威尔伯快两个月大的时候，他独自走到谷仓外的小院子里。弗恩没有像往常一样来探望他。威尔伯站在阳光下，感到孤独又无聊。

“There’s never anything to do around here,” he 
thought. He walked slowly to his food trough and 
sniffed to see if anything had been overlooked at 
lunch. He found a small strip of potato skin and ate it. 
His back itched, so he leaned against the fence and 
rubbed against the boards. When he tired of this, he 
walked indoors, climbed to the top of the manure pile, 
and sat down. He didn’t feel like going to sleep, he 
didn’t feel like digging, he was tired of standing still, 
tired of lying down. “I’m less than two months old and 
I’m tired of living,” he said. He walked out to the yard 
again. 
“这儿永远都没什么事可做，”他心想。他慢慢走到食槽边，嗅了嗅，看看午饭时有没有什么遗漏。他找到一小块土豆皮，吃了下去。他的背痒得厉害，于是靠在栅栏上，蹭着木板。蹭腻了之后，他走进屋里，爬到粪堆顶上，坐了下来。他不想睡觉，也不想挖土，他站着站着累了，躺着也累了。“我才不到两个月大，就活腻了，”他说。他又走回院子里去了。

“When I’m out here,” he said, “there’s no place to 
go but in. When I’m indoors, there’s no place to go but 
out in the yard.” 
他说：“我在外面的时候，除了进屋别无他处可去；我在屋里的时候，除了到院子里去也无处可去。”

“That’s where you’re wrong, my friend, my friend,” 
said a voice. 
“朋友，朋友，你错了，”一个声音说道。

Wilbur looked through the fence and saw the goose 
standing there. 
威尔伯透过栅栏往外看，看到那只鹅站在那里。

“You don’t have to stay in that dirty-little dirty- 
little dirty-little yard,” said the goose, who talked 
rather fast. “One of the boards is loose. Push on it, 
push-push-push on it, and come on out!” 
“你不用待在那个脏兮兮的小院子里，”鹅语速很快地说，“有一块木板松了。用力推，用力推，快出来！”

“What?” said Wilbur. “Say it slower!” 
“什么？”威尔伯说。“说慢点！”

“At-at-at, at the risk of repeating myself,” said the 
goose, “I suggest that you come on out. It’s wonderful 
out here.” 
“哎呀呀，恕我再说一遍，”鹅说道，“我建议你们出来走走。外面的世界太棒了。”

“Did you say a board was loose?” 
“你说有一块板子松动了？”

“That I did, that I did,” said the goose. 
“我做了，我做了，”鹅说道。

Wilbur walked up to the fence and saw that the 
goose was right — one board was loose. He put his head 
down, shut his eyes, and pushed. The board gave way. 
In a minute he had squeezed through the fence and 
was standing in the long grass outside his yard. The 
goose chuckled. 
威尔伯走到栅栏边，发现鹅说得没错——有一块木板松动了。他低下头，闭上眼睛，用力一推。木板松了。一分钟后，他便从栅栏缝隙里钻了出去，站在自家院子外的长草丛里。鹅咯咯地笑了起来。

“How does it feel to be free?” she asked. 
她问：“自由是什么感觉？”

“I like it,” said Wilbur. “That is, I guess I like it.” 
Actually, Wilbur felt queer to be outside his fence, 
with nothing between him and the big world. 
“我喜欢这里，”威尔伯说。“嗯，大概是喜欢吧。”其实，威尔伯觉得待在围栏外很奇怪，他感觉自己和外面的世界之间没有任何东西。

“Where do you think I’d better go?” 
“你觉得我最好去哪儿？”

“Anywhere you like, anywhere you like,” said the 
goose. “Go down through the orchard, root up the 
sod! Go down through the garden, dig up the radishes! 
Root up everything! Eat grass! Look for corn! Look 
for oats! Run all over! Skip and dance, jump and 
prance! Go down through the orchard and stroll in 
the woods! The world is a wonderful place when 
you’re young.” 
“想去哪儿就去哪儿，想去哪儿就去哪儿，”鹅说。“穿过果园，把草皮挖出来！穿过菜园，把萝卜挖出来！把所有东西都挖出来！吃草！找玉米！找燕麦！到处跑！蹦蹦跳跳，欢快地跳跃！穿过果园，去树林里漫步！年轻的时候，世界真是美好。”

“I can see that,” replied Wilbur. He gave a jump in 
the air, twirled, ran a few steps, stopped, looked all 
around, sniffed the smells of afternoon, and then set 
off walking down through the orchard. Pausing in the 
shade of an apple tree, he put his strong snout into the 
ground and began pushing, digging, and rooting. He 
felt very happy. He had plowed up quite a piece of 
ground before anyone noticed him. Mrs. Zuckerman 
was the first to see him. She saw him from the kitchen 
window, and she immediately shouted for the men. 
“我看到了，”威尔伯回答道。他跳了起来，转了个圈，跑了几步，停了下来，环顾四周，嗅了嗅午后的气息，然后沿着果园走去。他在一棵苹果树的树荫下停了下来，把强壮的鼻子伸进土里，开始推、挖、拱。他感到非常高兴。在有人注意到他之前，他已经拱翻了一大片地。祖克曼太太是第一个看到他的人。她从厨房的窗户看到了他，立刻大声呼喊男人们过来。

“Ho -mer\” she cried. “Pig’s out! Lurvy! Pig’s out! 
Homer! Lurvy! Pig’s out. He’s down there under that 
apple tree.” 
“荷马！”她喊道，“猪出来了！拉维！猪出来了！荷马！拉维！猪出来了。他就在那棵苹果树底下。”

“Now the trouble starts,” thought Wilbur. “Now 
I’ll catch it.” 
“麻烦来了，”威尔伯心想，“这下我可要抓住它了。”

The goose heard the racket and she, too, started 
hollering. “Run-run-run downhill, make for the 
woods, the woods!” she shouted to Wilbur. “They’ll 
never-never-never catch you in the woods.” 
鹅听到了喧闹声，也开始大声喊叫起来。“快跑快跑，跑下山，快进树林，快进树林！”她朝威尔伯喊道，“他们永远也永远也抓不到你，尤其是在树林里。”

The cocker spaniel heard the commotion and he ran 
out from the barn to join the chase. Mr. Zuckerman 
heard, and he came out of the machine shed where he 
was mending a tool. Lurvy, the hired man, heard the 
noise and came up from the asparagus patch where he 
was pulling weeds. Everybody walked toward Wilbur 
and Wilbur didn’t know what to do. The woods seemed 
a long way off, and anyway, he had never been down 
there in the woods and wasn’t sure he would like it. 
可卡犬听到动静，从谷仓里跑出来加入追逐。祖克曼先生也听到了，他正从修理工具的机棚里出来。雇工卢维听到动静，也从拔芦笋地里走了出来。大家都朝威尔伯走来，威尔伯不知所措。树林似乎很远，而且他从来没去过树林里，也不确定自己会不会喜欢那里。

“Get around behind him, Lurvy,” said Mr. Zucker- 
man, “and drive him toward the barn! And take it 
easy — don’t rush him! I’ll go and get a bucket of slops.” 
The news of Wilbur’s escape spread rapidly among 
the animals on the place. Whenever any creature broke 
loose on Zuckerman’s farm, the event was of great 
interest to the others. The goose shouted to the nearest 
cow that Wilbur was free, and soon all the cows knew. 
Then one of the cows told one of the sheep, and soon 
all the sheep knew. The lambs learned about it from 
their mothers. The horses, in their stalls in the barn, 
pricked up their ears when they heard the goose hol- 
lering; and soon the horses had caught on to what was 
happening. “Wilbur’s out,” they said. Every animal 
stirred and lifted its head and became excited to know 
that one of his friends had got free and was no longer 
penned up or tied fast. 
“拉维，绕到他身后去，”祖克曼先生说，“把他赶到谷仓去！别着急，慢慢来！我去拿桶泔水。”威尔伯逃跑的消息很快在农场里的动物中传开。祖克曼农场里，只要有动物挣脱束缚，其他动物都会非常感兴趣。鹅冲着最近的一头母牛喊道，威尔伯跑了，很快所有的牛都知道了。然后一头母牛告诉了一只羊，很快所有的羊也都知道了。小羊羔们从它们的母亲那里得知了这件事。马厩里的马儿听到鹅的叫声，竖起了耳朵；很快，马儿们也明白了发生了什么事。“威尔伯跑了！”它们说。每只动物都动了动，抬起头来，兴奋地得知自己的朋友挣脱了束缚，不再被圈养或拴住。

Wilbur didn’t know what to do or which way to 
run. It seemed as though everybody was after him. “If 
this is what it’s like to be free,” he thought, “I believe 
I’d rather be penned up in my own yard.” 
威尔伯不知所措，也不知道该往哪个方向跑。似乎所有人都在追他。“如果这就是自由的感觉，”他想，“我宁愿被圈在自家院子里。”

The cocker spaniel was sneaking up on him from one 
side, Lurvy the hired man was sneaking up on him 
from the other side. Mrs. Zuckerman stood ready to 
head him off if he started for the garden, and now Mr. 
Zuckerman was coming down toward him carrying a 
pail. “This is really awful,” thought Wilbur. “Why 
doesn’t Fern come?” He began to cry. 
那只可卡犬从一边悄悄靠近他，雇工勒维从另一边悄悄靠近他。祖克曼太太随时准备拦住他，以防他朝花园走去，而祖克曼先生正提着水桶朝他走来。“这真是太糟糕了，”威尔伯心想，“弗恩为什么不来呢？”他哭了起来。

The goose took command and began to give orders. 
“Don’t just stand there, Wilbur! Dodge about, 
dodge about!” cried the goose. “Skip around, run 
toward me, slip in and out, in and out, in and out! 
Make for the woods! Twist and turn!” 
鹅接管了指挥权，开始发号施令。“别光站着，威尔伯！快闪，快闪！”鹅喊道。“跳来跳去，朝我跑过来，溜进溜出，溜进溜出，溜进溜出！往树林里跑！扭来扭去！”

The cocker spaniel sprang for Wilbur’s hind leg. 
Wilbur jumped and ran. Lurvy reached out and 
grabbed. Mrs. Zuckerman screamed at Lurvy. The 
goose cheered for Wilbur. Wilbur dodged between 
Lurvy’s legs. Lurvy missed Wilbur and grabbed the 
spaniel instead. “Nicely done, nicely done!” cried the 
goose. “Try it again, try it again!” 
可卡犬猛扑向威尔伯的后腿。威尔伯跳起来就跑。拉维伸手抓住了它。祖克曼太太冲着拉维尖叫。鹅为威尔伯欢呼。威尔伯从拉维两腿间闪过。拉维没抓住威尔伯，反而抓住了可卡犬。“干得好，干得好！”鹅喊道，“再来一次，再来一次！”

“Run downhill!” suggested the cows. 
“往山下跑！”牛群提议道。

“Run toward me!” yelled the gander. 
“朝我跑过来！”雄鹅喊道。

“Run uphill! ” cried the sheep. 
“快跑上坡！”绵羊们喊道。

“Turn and twist!” honked the goose. 
“转圈扭动！”鹅叫道。

“Jump and dance!” said the rooster. 
“跳起来，跳舞！”公鸡说道。

“Look out for Lurvy!” called the cows. 
“小心卢维！”牛群喊道。

“Look out for Zuckerman! ” yelled the gander. 
“小心祖克曼！”雄鹅喊道。

“Watch out for the dog!” cried the sheep. 
“小心狗！”绵羊喊道。

“Listen to me, listen to me!” screamed the goose. 
“听我说，听我说！”鹅尖叫道。

Poor Wilbur was dazed and frightened by this hulla- 
baloo. He didn’t like being the center of all this fuss. 
He tried to follow the instructions his friends were 
giving him, but he couldn’t run downhill and uphill 
at the same time, and he couldn’t turn and twist when 
he was jumping and dancing, and he was crying so 
hard he could barely see anything that was happening. 
After all, Wilbur was a very young pig — not much 
more than a baby, really. He wished Fern were there 
to take him in her arms and comfort him. When he 
looked up and saw Mr. Zuckerman standing quite close 
to him, holding a pail of warm slops, he felt relieved. 
He lifted his nose and sniffed. The smell was delicious 
— warm milk, potato skins, wheat middlings, Kellogg’s 
Corn Flakes, and a popover left from the Zuckermans’ 
breakfast. 
可怜的威尔伯被这阵喧闹弄得晕头转向，又惊又怕。他不喜欢成为这场骚动的中心。他努力按照朋友们的指示去做，但他不可能同时跑下坡和上坡，也不可能一边跳一边转身扭动，而且他哭得那么厉害，几乎什么都看不见。毕竟，威尔伯只是一头很小的猪——实际上，他比婴儿还小。他多么希望弗恩能抱抱他，安慰他。当他抬头看到祖克曼先生站在离他很近的地方，手里拿着一桶热乎乎的泔水时，他松了一口气。他抬起鼻子闻了闻。那味道真香——热牛奶、土豆皮、麦麸、家乐氏玉米片，还有祖克曼一家早餐剩下的泡芙。

“Come, pig!” said Mr. Zuckerman, tapping the pail. 
“Come pig!” 
“过来，猪！”祖克曼先生一边说着，一边敲了敲水桶。“过来，猪！”

Wilbur took a step toward the pail. 
威尔伯朝水桶走了一步。

“No-no-no!” said the goose. “It’s the old pail trick, 
Wilbur. Don’t fall for it, don’t fall for it! He’s trying 
to lure you back into captivity-ivity. He’s appealing 
to your stomach.” 
“不不不！”鹅说，“这是老掉牙的桶戏法，威尔伯。别上当，别上当！他想把你骗回圈养的地方。他想勾引你的肚子。”

Wilbur didn’t care. The food smelled appetizing. 
He took another step toward the pail. 
威尔伯毫不在意。食物闻起来很诱人。他朝桶边又走了一步。

“Pig, pig!” said Mr. Zuckerman in a kind voice, and 
began walking slowly toward the barnyard, looking all 
about him innocently, as if he didn’t know that a little 
white pig was following along behind him. 
“猪，猪！”祖克曼先生用和蔼的声音说道，然后慢慢地朝谷仓走去，一脸无辜地环顾四周，仿佛不知道一只小白猪正跟在他身后。

“You’ll be sorry-sorry-sorry,” called the goose. 
“你会后悔的，后悔的，后悔的，”鹅叫道。

Wilbur didn’t care. He kept walking toward the 
pail of slops. 
威尔伯毫不在意，继续朝那桶泔水走去。

“You’ll miss your freedom,” honked the goose. “An 
hour of freedom is worth a barrel of slops.” 
“你会想念你的自由的，”鹅叫道。“一小时的自由胜过一桶泔水。”

Wilbur didn’t care.   威尔伯不在乎。

When Mr. Zuckerman reached the pigpen, he 
climbed over the fence and poured the slops into the 
trough. Then he pulled the loose board away from the 
fence, so that there was a wide hole for Wilbur to walk 
through. 
祖克曼先生走到猪圈边，翻过围栏，把泔水倒进食槽里。然后他把松动的木板从围栏边拉开，这样就形成了一个大洞，威尔伯可以钻过去。

“Reconsider, reconsider!” cried the goose. 
“再三考虑，再三考虑！”鹅叫道。

Wilbur paid no attention. He stepped through the 
fence into his yard. He walked to the trough and took 
a long drink of slops, sucking in the milk hungrily and 
chewing the popover. It was good to be home again. 
威尔伯毫不在意。他穿过栅栏，走进自己的院子。他走到食槽边，痛快地喝了一大口泔水，贪婪地吮吸着牛奶，嚼着泡芙。回家真好。

While Wilbur ate, Lurvy fetched a hammer and 
some 8-penny nails and nailed the board in place. Then 
he and Mr. Zuckerman leaned lazily on the fence and 
Mr. Zuckerman scratched Wilbur’s back with a stick. 
威尔伯吃东西的时候，勒维拿来一把锤子和一些八便士的钉子，把木板钉好。然后他和祖克曼先生懒洋洋地靠在栅栏上，祖克曼先生用一根棍子挠威尔伯的背。

“He’s quite a pig,” said Lurvy. 
“他真是个十足的猪，”卢维说道。

“Yes, he’ll make a good pig,” said Mr. Zuckerman. 
“是的，他会成为一头好猪，”祖克曼先生说。

Wilbur heard the words of praise. He felt the warm 
milk inside his stomach. He felt the pleasant rubbing 
of the stick along his itchy back. He felt peaceful and 
happy and sleepy. This had been a tiring afternoon. It 
was still only about four o’clock but Wilbur was ready 
for bed. 
威尔伯听到了赞扬的话语。他感到肚子里暖洋洋的牛奶。他感到木棍轻轻地摩擦着他发痒的后背，感觉很舒服。他感到平静、快乐，也有些困倦。这是一个疲惫的下午。现在才四点左右，但威尔伯已经准备睡觉了。

“I’m really too young to go out into the world 
alone,” he thought as he lay down. 
“我还太年轻，不能独自闯荡世界，”他躺下时心想。

THE NEXT day was rainy and dark. Rain 
fell on the roof of the barn and dripped 
steadily from the eaves. Rain fell in the 
barnyard and ran in crooked courses down 
into the lane where thistles and pigweed grew. Rain 
spattered against Mrs. Zuckerman’s kitchen windows 
and came gushing out of the downspouts. Rain fell on 
the backs of the sheep as they grazed in the meadow. 
When the sheep tired of standing in the rain, they 
walked slowly up the lane and into the fold. 
第二天阴雨绵绵，天色昏暗。雨水落在谷仓的屋顶上，顺着屋檐滴落。雨水落在谷仓院子里，蜿蜒流淌到长满蓟草和苋菜的小路上。雨点噼里啪啦地打在祖克曼太太家的厨房窗户上，又从落水管里倾泻而下。雨水打在草地上吃草的羊背上。羊群在雨中站累了，便沿着小路缓缓走回羊圈。

Rain upset Wilbur’s plans. Wilbur had planned to 
go out, this day, and dig a new hole in his yard. He had 
other plans, too. His plans for the day went something 
like this: 
下雨打乱了威尔伯的计划。威尔伯原本计划今天出去，在院子里挖个新坑。他还有其他的计划。他今天的计划大致如下：

Breakfast at six-thirty. Skim milk, crusts, middlings, 
bits of doughnuts, wheat cakes with drops of maple 
syrup sticking to them, potato skins, leftover custard 
pudding with raisins, and bits of Shredded Wheat. 
Breakfast would be finished at seven. 
六点半吃早餐。脱脂牛奶、面包皮、面包屑、甜甜圈碎、沾着枫糖浆的麦片饼、烤土豆皮、剩下的加了葡萄干的布丁，还有碎麦片。早餐七点结束。

From seven to eight, Wilbur planned to have a talk 
with Templeton, the rat that lived under his trough. 
Talking with Templeton was not the most interesting 
occupation in the world but it was better than nothing. 
七点到八点之间，威尔伯打算和住在他食槽下的老鼠坦普尔顿聊聊。和坦普尔顿聊天虽然算不上什么有趣的事，但总比什么都不做好。

From eight to nine, Wilbur planned to take a nap 
outdoors in the sun. 
威尔伯计划八点到九点在户外晒晒太阳睡个午觉。

From nine to eleven he planned to dig a hole, or 
trench, and possibly find something good to eat buried 
in the dirt. 
从九点到十一点，他计划挖个洞或沟，看看能不能在土里找到什么好吃的。

From eleven to twelve he planned to stand still and 
watch flies on the boards, watch bees in the clover, and 
watch swallows in the air. 
他计划从十一点到十二点站在那里，观察木板上的苍蝇，观察三叶草里的蜜蜂，观察空中的燕子。

Twelve o’clock — lunchtime. Middlings, warm 
water, apple parings, meat gravy, carrot scrapings, meat 
scraps, stale hominy, and the wrapper off a package of 
cheese. Lunch would be over at one. 
十二点——午餐时间。一些中等分量的食物，温水，苹果皮，肉汁，胡萝卜丝，肉末，隔夜玉米粒，还有一包奶酪的包装纸。午餐一点就结束了。

From one to two, Wilbur planned to sleep. 
威尔伯计划从凌晨一点睡到两点。

From two to three, he planned to scratch itchy places 
by rubbing against the fence. 
两三点钟的时候，他打算通过摩擦栅栏来挠痒。

From three to four, he planned to stand perfectly 
still and think of what it was like to be alive, and to 
wait for Fern. 
从下午三点到四点，他计划一动不动地站着，思考活着的意义，并等待弗恩。

At four would come supper. Skim milk, provender, 
leftover sandwich from Lurvy’s lunchbox, prune skins, 
a morsel of this, a bit of that, fried potatoes, marmalade 
drippings, a little more of this, a little more of that, a 
piece of baked apple, a scrap of upsidedown cake. 
下午四点是晚餐时间。脱脂牛奶、饲料、卢维午餐盒里剩下的三明治、西梅皮、一点这个、一点那个、炸土豆、橘子酱汁、再来一点这个、再来一点那个、一块烤苹果、一小块翻转蛋糕。

Wilbur had gone to sleep thinking about these plans. 
威尔伯带着这些计划入睡了。

He awoke at six and saw the rain, and it seemed as 
though he couldn’t bear it. 
他早上六点醒来，看到下雨，似乎无法忍受。

“I get everything all beautifully planned out and it 
has to go and rain,” he said. 
“我把一切都计划得非常周全，结果却下雨了，”他说。

For a while he stood gloomily indoors. Then he 
walked to the door and looked out. Drops of rain struck 
his face. His yard was cold and wet. His trough had an 
inch of rainwater in it. Templeton was nowhere to be 
seen. 
他闷闷不乐地在屋里站了一会儿。然后他走到门口，向外望去。雨滴打在他的脸上。院子又冷又湿。水槽里积了一英寸深的雨水。坦普尔顿不见踪影。

“Are you out there, Templeton?” called Wilbur. 
There was no answer. Suddenly Wilbur felt lonely and 
friendless. 
“坦普尔顿，你在吗？”威尔伯喊道。没有回应。威尔伯突然感到孤独无助。

“One day just like another,” he groaned. “I’m very 
young, I have no real friend here in the barn, it’s going 
to rain all morning and all afternoon, and Fern won’t 
come in such bad weather. Oh, honestly !” And Wil- 
bur was crying again, for the second time in two days. 
“真是日复一日，”他呻吟道，“我还很小，谷仓里我没有真正的朋友，今天上午下午都要下雨，弗恩在这种恶劣天气下是不会来的。唉，真是的！”威尔伯又哭了，这已经是两天内第二次了。

At six-thirty Wilbur heard the banging of a pail. 
Lurvy was standing outside in the rain, stirring up 
breakfast. 
六点半，威尔伯听到水桶砰砰作响的声音。卢维站在雨里，正在搅动早餐的汤汁。

“C’mon, pig!” said Lurvy. 
“来吧，猪！”拉维说道。

Wilbur did not budge. Lurvy dumped the slops, 
scraped the pail, and walked away. He noticed that 
something was wrong with the pig. 
威尔伯一动不动。勒维把泔水倒掉，刮干净桶，然后走开了。他注意到这头猪有点不对劲。

Wilbur didn’t want food, he wanted love. He 
wanted a friend — someone who would play with 
him. He mentioned this to the goose, who was sit- 
ting quietly in a corner of the sheepfold. 
威尔伯不想要食物，他想要爱。他想要一个朋友——一个能和他一起玩耍的朋友。他把这些话告诉了那只安静地坐在羊圈角落里的鹅。

“Will you come over and play with me?” he asked. 
“你愿意过来和我一起玩吗？”他问道。

“Sorry, sonny, sorry,” said the goose. “I’m sitting- 
sitting on my eggs. Eight of them. Got to keep them 
toasty-oasty-oasty warm. I have to stay right here, I’m 
no flibberty-ibberty-gibbet. I do not play when there 
are eggs to hatch. I’m expecting goslings.” 
“对不起，孩子，对不起，”鹅说。“我正在孵蛋呢。八个蛋呢。得让它们暖烘烘的。我得待在这儿，我可不是个爱玩爱闹的家伙。有蛋要孵的时候我可不玩。我正期待着小鹅呢。”

“Well, I didn’t think you were expecting wood- 
peckers,” said Wilbur, bitterly. 
“唉，我没想到你们会期待啄木鸟，”威尔伯愤愤不平地说。

Wilbur next tried one of the lambs. 
威尔伯接着试吃了一只小羊羔。

“Will you please play with me?” he asked. 
“你愿意陪我玩吗？”他问道。

“Certainly not,” said the lamb. “In the first place, I 
cannot get into your pen, as I am not old enough to 
jump over the fence. In the second place, I am not in- 
terested in pigs. Pigs mean less than nothing to me.” 
“当然不行，”小羊羔说。“首先，我进不了你的猪圈，因为我太小了，跳不过围栏。其次，我对猪一点兴趣都没有。猪对我来说毫无意义。”

“What do you mean, less than nothing?” replied 
Wilbur. “I don’t think there is any such thing as less 
than nothing. Nothing is absolutely the limit of noth- 
ingness. It’s the lowest you can go. It’s the end of the 
line. How can something be less than nothing? If there 
were something that was less than nothing, then noth- 
ing would not be nothing, it would be something — 
even though it’s just a very little bit of something. But 
if nothing is nothing , then nothing has nothing that is 
less than it is.” 
“你说什么？比虚无还少？”威尔伯回答说，“我不认为有比虚无还少的东西。虚无就是虚无的极限，是你能达到的最低点，是终点。怎么可能有比虚无还少的东西呢？如果真有比虚无还少的东西，那么虚无就不是虚无，而是一种存在——即使它只是极少量的存在。但如果虚无就是虚无，那么虚无就不存在比它更少的东西。”

“Oh, be quiet!” said the lamb. “Go play by yourself! 
I don’t play with pigs.” 
“哦，安静点！”小羊羔说。“你自己去玩吧！我不跟猪玩。”

Sadly, Wilbur lay down and listened to the rain. 
Soon he saw the rat climbing down a slanting board 
that he used as a stairway. 
威尔伯伤心地躺了下来，听着雨声。很快，他看到老鼠正沿着一块斜板往下爬，那块板子被他当作楼梯使用。

“Will you play with me, Templeton?” asked Wil- 
bur. 
“坦普尔顿，你愿意和我一起玩吗？”威尔伯问道。


“Play?” said Templeton, twirling his whiskers. 
“Play? I hardly know the meaning of the word.” 
“Well,” said Wilbur, “it means to have fun, to frolic, 
to run and skip and make merry.” 
“玩耍？”坦普尔顿一边捻着胡须一边说，“玩耍？我几乎不知道这个词的意思。”“嗯，”威尔伯说，“它的意思是玩乐、嬉戏、奔跑、跳跃、欢笑。”

“I never do those things if I can avoid them,” replied 
the rat, sourly. “I prefer to spend my time eating, gnaw- 
ing, spying, and hiding. I am a glutton but not a merry- 
maker. Right now I am on my way to your trough to 
eat your breakfast, since you haven’t got sense enough 
to eat it yourself.” And Templeton, the rat, crept 
stealthily along the wall and disappeared into a private 
tunnel that he had dug between the door and the trough 
in Wilbur’s yard. Templeton was a crafty rat, and he 
had things pretty much his own way. The tunnel was 
an example of his skill and cunning. The tunnel en- 
abled him to get from the barn to his hiding place under 
the pig trough without coming out into the open. He 
had tunnels and runways all over Mr. Zuckerman’s 
farm and could get from one place to another without 
being seen. Usually he slept during the daytime and was 
abroad only after dark. 
“如果可以避免，我绝不会做那些事，”老鼠酸溜溜地回答道，“我更喜欢把时间花在吃、啃、窥探和躲藏上。我贪吃，但不是个爱玩乐的人。现在我正要去你的食槽吃你的早餐，因为你没脑子自己吃。”说完，老鼠坦普尔顿便沿着墙壁悄悄地爬去，消失在威尔伯家院子里，门和食槽之间他挖的一条秘密隧道里。坦普尔顿是一只狡猾的老鼠，他几乎总是随心所欲。这条隧道就是他技艺和狡诈的体现。有了这条隧道，他就可以不用露面就能从谷仓到达猪槽下的藏身之处。他在祖克曼先生的农场里到处都有隧道和通道，可以神不知鬼不觉地从一个地方到另一个地方。他通常白天睡觉，只有天黑以后才会出来活动。

Wilbur watched him disappear into his tunnel. In a 
moment he saw the rat’s sharp nose poke out from un- 
derneath the wooden trough. Cautiously Templeton 
pulled himself up over the edge of the trough. This was 
almost more than Wilbur could stand: on this dreary, 
rainy day to see his breakfast being eaten by somebody 
else. He knew Templeton was getting soaked, out there 
in the pouring rain, but even that didn’t comfort him. 
Friendless, dejected, and hungry, he threw himself 
down in the manure and sobbed. 
威尔伯看着他消失在隧道里。片刻之后，他看到老鼠尖尖的鼻子从木槽底下探了出来。坦普尔顿小心翼翼地爬过槽沿。这几乎让威尔伯难以忍受：在这阴雨绵绵的日子里，眼睁睁地看着自己的早餐被别人吃掉。他知道坦普尔顿在外面淋着瓢泼大雨，浑身湿透，但这也无法让他感到安慰。孤苦伶仃、垂头丧气、饥肠辘辘的他，一头栽倒在粪堆里，嚎啕大哭起来。

Late that afternoon, Lurvy went to Mr. Zuckerman. 
“I think there’s something wrong with that pig of 
yours. He hasn’t touched his food.” 
那天下午晚些时候，卢维去找了祖克曼先生。“我觉得你家的猪有点不对劲。它一口食都没吃。”

“Give him two spoonfuls of sulphur and a little mo- 
lasses,” said Mr. Zuckerman. 
“给他两勺硫磺和一点糖蜜，”祖克曼先生说。

Wilbur couldn’t believe what was happening to him 
when Lurvy caught him and forced the medicine down 
his throat. This was certainly the worst day of his life. 
He didn’t know whether he could endure the awful 
loneliness any more. 
威尔伯简直不敢相信眼前发生的一切，卢维抓住了他，强行把药灌进了他的喉咙。这无疑是他生命中最糟糕的一天。他不知道自己还能不能忍受这可怕的孤独。

Darkness settled over everything. Soon there were 
only shadows and the noises of the sheep chewing their 
cuds, and occasionally the rattle of a cow-chain up 
overhead. You can imagine Wilbur’s surprise when, 
out of the darkness, came a small voice he had never 
heard before. It sounded rather thin, but pleasant. “Do 
you want a friend, Wilbur?” it said. “I’ll be a friend to 
you. I’ve watched you all day and I like you.” 
夜幕降临，万物尽收眼底。很快，只剩下模糊的影子和绵羊反刍的声音，偶尔还能听到头顶上牛链的叮当声。你可以想象威尔伯有多么惊讶，黑暗中突然传来一个他从未听过的细小声音。那声音听起来有些微弱，但却很悦耳。“威尔伯，你想交个朋友吗？”它问道，“我愿意做你的朋友。我观察了你一整天，我很喜欢你。”

“But I can’t see you,” said Wilbur, jumping to his 
feet. “Where are you? And who are you?” 
“可是我看不见你，”威尔伯说着，猛地站了起来。“你在哪里？你是谁？”

“I’m right up here,” said the voice. “Go to sleep. 
You’ll see me in the morning.” 
THE NIGHT seemed long. Wilbur’s stom- 
ach was empty and his mind was full. And 
when your stomach is empty and your mind 
is full, it’s always hard to sleep. 
“我就在这儿，”那声音说，“睡吧，明天早上你就能见到我了。” 夜似乎很漫长。威尔伯肚子空空，脑子里却塞满了东西。肚子空空、脑子里却想着很多事的时候，总是很难入睡。

A dozen times during the night Wilbur woke and 
stared into the blackness, listening to the sounds and 
trying to figure out what time it was. A barn is never 
perfectly quiet. Even at midnight there is usually some- 
thing stirring. 
夜里，威尔伯醒了十几次，凝视着漆黑的谷仓，倾听着各种声响，试图弄清楚现在几点了。谷仓里从来都不是绝对安静的。即使是午夜，也总会有什么东西在动静。

The first time he woke, he heard Templeton gnaw- 
ing a hole in the grain bin. Templeton’s teeth scraped 
loudly against the wood and made quite a racket. “That 
crazy rat!” thought Wilbur. “Why does he have to 
stay up all night, grinding his dashers and destroying 
people’s property? Why can’t he go to sleep, like any 
decent animal?” 
他第一次醒来时，听到坦普尔顿正在啃谷仓，牙齿刮擦木头发出刺耳的响声。“这只疯老鼠！”威尔伯心想，“它为什么非要整夜不睡，磨牙捣鼓，破坏别人的东西？它为什么不能像其他正常的动物一样好好睡觉呢？”

The second time Wilbur woke, he heard the goose 
turning on her nest and chuckling to herself. 
威尔伯第二次醒来时，听到那只鹅在巢里翻来覆去地笑着。

“What time is it?” whispered Wilbur to the goose. 
“Probably-obably-obably about half-past eleven,” 
said the goose. “Why aren’t you asleep, Wilbur?” 
“现在几点了？”威尔伯轻声问鹅。“大概……大概十一点半吧，”鹅说。“威尔伯，你怎么还不睡？”

“Too many things on my mind,” said Wilbur. 
“我心事太多了，”威尔伯说。

“Well,” said the goose, “that’s not my trouble. I have 
nothing at all on my mind, but I’ve too many things 
under my behind. Have you ever tried to sleep while 
sitting on eight eggs?” 
“唉，”鹅说，“那不是我的问题。我什么事都没想，只是屁股底下压着太多东西。你试过坐在八个蛋上睡觉吗？”

“No,” replied Wilbur. “I suppose it is uncomforta- 
ble. How long does it take a goose egg to hatch?” 
“不，”威尔伯回答说，“我想这肯定不舒服。鹅蛋要多久才能孵化出来呢？”

“Approximately-oximately thirty days, all told,” an- 
swered the goose. “But I cheat a little. On warm after- 
noons, I just pull a little straw over the eggs and go out 
for a walk.” 
“总共大概三十天吧，”鹅回答说。“不过我耍了点小聪明。在温暖的午后，我就用一根稻草盖住蛋，然后出去散步。”

Wilbur yawned and went back to sleep. In his dreams 
he heard again the voice saying, “I’ll be a friend to you. 
Go to sleep — you’ll see me in the morning.” 
威尔伯打了个哈欠，又睡着了。在梦里，他又听到那个声音说：“我会做你的朋友。睡吧——明天早上你就能见到我了。”

About half an hour before dawn, Wilbur woke and 
listened. The barn was still dark. The sheep lay motion- 
less. Even the goose was quiet. Overhead, on the main 
floor, nothing stirred: the cows were resting, the horses 
dozed. Templeton had quit work and gone off some- 
where on an errand. The only sound was a slight scrap- 
ing noise from the rooftop, where the weather-vane 
swung back and forth. Wilbur loved the barn when it 
was like this — calm and quiet, waiting for light. 
黎明前大约半小时，威尔伯醒了过来，侧耳倾听。谷仓里依然漆黑一片。羊群一动不动地躺着。就连鹅也安静无声。头顶上，主楼层一片寂静：牛群在休息，马儿在打盹。坦普尔顿已经下班，不知去哪儿办事了。唯一的声音是屋顶上风向标轻轻摆动时发出的轻微刮擦声。威尔伯喜欢谷仓此刻的宁静——平静而安详，静静地等待着黎明的到来。

“Day is almost here,” he thought. 
“天快亮了，”他想。

Through a small window, a faint gleam appeared. 
透过一扇小窗户，透出一丝微弱的光芒。

One by one the stars went out. Wilbur could see the 
goose a few feet away. She sat with head tucked under 
a wing. Then he could see the sheep and the lambs. The 
sky’ lightened. 
星星一颗颗地熄灭了。威尔伯看见几英尺外的鹅，它把头埋在翅膀底下。然后他又看见了绵羊和小羊羔。天空亮了起来。

“Oh, beautiful day, it is here at last! Today I shall 
find my friend.” 
“哦，美好的一天终于到来了！今天我一定能找到我的朋友。”

Wilbur looked everywhere. He searched his pen 
thoroughly. He examined the window ledge, stared up 
at the ceiling. But he saw nothing new. Finally he de- 
cided he would have to speak up. He hated to break the 
lovely stillness of dawn by using his voice, but he 
couldn’t think of any other way to locate the mysteri- 
ous new friend who was nowhere to be seen. So Wil- 
bur cleared his throat. 
威尔伯四处寻找，仔细翻遍了笔筒，检查了窗台，抬头望向天花板，却一无所获。最后，他决定开口说话。他很不情愿用声音打破黎明的宁静，但实在想不出别的办法来找到这位神秘的新朋友，因为那位朋友已经不见踪影。于是，威尔伯清了清嗓子。

“Attention, please!” he said in a loud, firm voice. 
“Will the party’ who addressed me at bedtime last night 
kindly make himself or herself known by giving an 
appropriate sign or signal!” 
“请注意！”他用洪亮而坚定的声音说道，“昨晚睡前跟我说话的那位，请用适当的手势或信号表明身份！”

Wilbur paused and listened. All the other animals 
lifted their heads and stared at him. Wilbur blushed. 
But he was determined to get in touch with his un- 
known friend. 
威尔伯停下脚步，侧耳倾听。其他动物都抬起头，盯着他看。威尔伯脸红了。但他决心要和这位素未谋面的朋友取得联系。

“Attention, please!” he said. “I will repeat the mes- 
sage. Will the party who addressed me at bedtime last 
night kindly speak up. Please tell me where you are, if 
you are my friend!” 
“请注意！”他说道，“我再重复一遍。昨晚睡前跟我说话的那位，请开口。如果你是我的朋友，请告诉我你在哪里！”

The sheep looked at each other in disgust. 
“Stop your nonsense, Wilbur!” said the oldest sheep. 
“If you have a new friend here, you are probably dis- 
turbing his rest; and the quickest way to spoil a friend- 
ship is to wake somebody up in the morning before he 
is ready. How can you be sure your friend is an early 
riser?” 
绵羊们面面相觑，一脸厌恶。“别胡闹了，威尔伯！”年纪最大的那只羊说，“如果你在这里交了个新朋友，你很可能打扰了他的休息；破坏友谊最快的方法就是在早上还没准备好的时候就把人吵醒。你怎么能确定你的朋友是个早起的人呢？”

“I beg everyone’s pardon,” whispered Wilbur. “I 
didn’t mean to be objectionable.” 
“请各位原谅，”威尔伯低声说道，“我无意冒犯。”

He lay down meekly in the manure, facing the door. 
He did not know it, but his friend was very near. And 
the old sheep was right — the friend was still asleep. 
他温顺地躺在粪堆里，面朝门口。他不知道，他的朋友就在附近。老羊说得没错——他的朋友还在睡觉。

Soon Lurvy appeared with slops for breakfast. Wil- 
bur rushed out, ate everything in a hurry, and licked 
the trough. The sheep moved off down the lane, the 
gander waddled along behind them, pulling grass. And 
then, just as Wilbur was settling down for his morning 
nap, he heard again the thin voice that had addressed 
him the night before. 
很快，勒维端着泔水来了，准备做早餐。威尔伯冲出去，狼吞虎咽地吃光了所有东西，然后舔了舔食槽。羊群沿着小路走去，公羊摇摇摆摆地跟在后面，一边走一边拔草。就在威尔伯准备睡个午觉的时候，他又听到了昨晚跟他说话的那个细弱的声音。

“Salutations!” said the voice. 
“你好！”那声音说道。

Wilbur jumped to his feet. “Salu-'iu&drt? ” he cried. 
威尔伯跳了起来。“萨鲁-伊乌&德特？”他喊道。

“Salutations!” repeated the voice. 
“你好！”那个声音再次响起。

“What are they, and where are you?” screamed Wil- 
bur. “Please, please , tell me where you are. And what 
are salutations?” 
“它们是什么？你们在哪里？”威尔伯尖叫道，“求求你们，告诉我你们在哪里。还有，什么是问候语？”

“Salutations are greetings,” said the voice. “When I 
say ‘salutations,’ it’s just my fancy way of saying hello 
or good morning. Actually, it’s a silly expression, and 
I am surprised that I used it at all. As for my where- 
abouts, that’s easy. Look up here in the corner of the 
doorway! Here I am. Look, I’m waving!” 
“问候语就是打招呼，”那声音说道。“我说‘问候语’，只是我打招呼的一种比较文雅的方式，意思是你好或者早上好。其实，这是一种很傻的表达，我自己都惊讶我居然会用它。至于我在哪里，那很简单。看看这里，就在门口的角落里！我在这儿呢。看，我在挥手呢！”

At last Wilbur saw the creature that had spoken to 
him in such a kindly way. Stretched across the upper 
part of the doorway was a big spiderweb, and hanging 
from the top of the web, head down, was a large grey 
spider. She was about the size of a gumdrop. She had 
eight legs, and she was waving one of them at Wilbur 
in friendly greeting. “See me now?” she asked. 
威尔伯终于看到了那个和蔼可亲地跟他说话的生物。门框上方铺着一张巨大的蜘蛛网，一只灰色的大蜘蛛头朝下挂在网顶上。她大约有一颗软糖那么大，有八条腿，正友好地挥动着其中一条腿向威尔伯打招呼。“现在看到我了吗？”她问道。

“Oh, yes indeed,” said Wilbur. “Yes indeed! How 
are you? Good morning! Salutations! Very pleased to 
meet you. What is your name, please? May I have your 
name?” 
“哦，是的，”威尔伯说。“是的！你好吗？早上好！你好！很高兴见到你。请问你叫什么名字？我可以知道你的名字吗？”

“My name,” said the spider, “is Charlotte.” 
“Charlotte what?” asked Wilbur, eagerly. 
“我的名字，”蜘蛛说，“是夏洛特。”“夏洛特什么？”威尔伯急切地问。

“Charlotte A. Cavatica. But just call me Charlotte.” 
“I think you’re beautiful,” said Wilbur. 
“我叫夏洛特·A·卡瓦蒂卡，不过叫我夏洛特就好。”威尔伯说：“我觉得你很漂亮。”

“Well, I am pretty,” replied Charlotte. “There’s no 
denying that. Almost all spiders are rather nice-looking. 
I’m not as flashy as some, but I’ll do. I wish I could see 
you, Wilbur, as clearly as you can see me.” 
“嗯，我的确很漂亮，”夏洛回答说。“这一点毋庸置疑。几乎所有的蜘蛛都长得不错。我虽然不像有些蜘蛛那么艳丽，但也还不错。我真希望我能像你看我一样清楚地看到你，威尔伯。”

“Why can’t you?” asked the pig. “I’m right here.” 
“Yes, but I’m near-sighted,” replied Charlotte. “I’ve 
always been dreadfully near-sighted. It’s good in some 
ways, not so good in others. Watch me wrap up this 
fly.” 
“你为什么不能？”猪问。“​​我就在这儿啊。”“是啊，但我近视，”夏洛特回答。“我一直都是个很严重的近视眼。有些方面是好事，有些方面就不好说了。看着我把这只苍蝇包起来。”

A fly that had been crawling along Wilbur’s trough 
had flown up and blundered into the lower part of 
Charlotte’s web and was tangled in the sticky threads. 
The fly was beating its wings furiously, trying to break 
loose and free itself. 
一只苍蝇沿着威尔伯的食槽爬来爬去，突然飞了起来，误入了夏洛的蛛网下部，被粘在了蛛丝里。苍蝇拼命地拍打着翅膀，试图挣脱束缚。

“First,” said Charlotte, “I dive at him.” She plunged 
headfirst toward the fly. As she dropped, a tiny silken 
thread unwound from her rear end. 
“首先，”夏洛特说，“我要扑向它。”她头朝下猛地扑向那只苍蝇。就在她下落的过程中，一根细小的丝线从她的臀部脱落下来。

“Next, I wrap him up.” She grabbed the fly, threw 
a few jets of silk around it, and rolled it over and over, 
wrapping it so that it couldn’t move. Wilbur watched 
in horror. He could hardly believe what he was seeing, 
and although he detested flies, he was sorry for this one. 
“接下来，我把它裹起来。”她一把抓住那只苍蝇，甩了几缕丝线把它缠起来，一遍又一遍地翻滚，直到它动弹不得。威尔伯惊恐地看着这一切。他简直不敢相信自己的眼睛，虽然他讨厌苍蝇，但他却对这只苍蝇感到同情。

“There!” said Charlotte. “Now I knock him out, so 
he’ll be more comfortable.” She bit the fly. “He can’t 
feel a thing now,” she remarked. “He’ll make a perfect 
breakfast for me.” 
“好了！”夏洛特说，“现在我把他打晕，这样他会更舒服些。”她咬了咬苍蝇。“他现在什么都感觉不到了，”她说道，“他会成为我完美的早餐。”

“You mean you eat flies?” gasped Wilbur. 
“你是说你吃苍蝇？”威尔伯惊呼道。

“Certainly. Flies, bugs, grasshoppers, choice beetles, 
moths, butterflies, tasty cockroaches, gnats, midges, 
daddy longlegs, centipedes, mosquitoes, crickets — any- 
thing that is careless enough to get caught in my web. 
I have to live, don’t I?” 
“当然。苍蝇、虫子、蚱蜢、甲虫、飞蛾、蝴蝶、美味的蟑螂、蚋、蠓、长腿蜘蛛、蜈蚣、蚊子、蟋蟀——任何粗心大意落入我蛛网的生物。我得活下去，不是吗？”

“Why, yes, of course,” said Wilbur. “Do they taste 
good?” 
“当然好吃，”威尔伯说。“它们好吃吗？”

“Delicious. Of course, I don’t really eat them. I drink 
them — drink their blood. I love blood,” said Charlotte, 
and her pleasant, thin voice grew even thinner and more 
pleasant. 
“真美味。当然，我并不真的吃它们。我喝它们——喝它们的血。我爱血。”夏洛特说着，她那悦耳的细弱声音变得更加细弱，也更加悦耳。

“Don’t say that!” groaned Wilbur. “Please don’t say 
things like that!” 
“别这么说！”威尔伯呻吟道，“求你别说这种话！”

“Why not? It’s true, and I have to say what is true. 
I am not entirely happy about my diet of flies and bugs, 
but it’s the way I’m made. A spider has to pick up a 
living somehow or other, and I happen to be a trapper. 
I just naturally build a web and trap flies and other in- 
sects. My mother was a trapper before me. Her mother 
was a trapper before her. All our family have been trap- 
pers. Way back for thousands and thousands of years 
we spiders have been laying for flies and bugs.” 
“为什么不呢？这是事实，我必须说出真相。我并不完全喜欢以苍蝇和昆虫为食，但这是我的天性。蜘蛛总得想办法谋生，而我恰好是个捕虫者。我天生就会织网，捕捉苍蝇和其他昆虫。我的母亲以前也是个捕虫者。她的母亲以前也是。我们全家都是捕虫者。几千年来，我们蜘蛛一直在织网捕捉苍蝇和昆虫。”

“It’s a miserable inheritance,” said Wilbur, gloomily. 
He was sad because his new friend was so bloodthirsty. 
“这是一份糟糕的遗产，”威尔伯沮丧地说。他很伤心，因为他的新朋友如此嗜血。

“Yes, it is,” agreed Charlotte. “But I can’t help it. I 
don’t know how the first spider in the early days of the 
world happened to think up this fancy idea of spinning 
a web, but she did, and it was clever of her, too. And 
since then, all of us spiders have had to work the same 
trick. It’s not a bad pitch, on the whole.” 
“没错，”夏洛特同意道，“但我也没办法。我不知道世界之初第一只蜘蛛是怎么想到织网这个绝妙的主意的，但她确实想到了，而且她的确很聪明。从那以后，我们所有的蜘蛛都不得不使用同样的技巧。总的来说，这招还不错。”

“It’s cruel,” replied Wilbur, who did not intend to 
be argued out of his position. 
“这太残忍了，”威尔伯回答道，他并不打算放弃自己的立场。

“Well, you can’t talk” said Charlotte. “ You have 
your meals brought to you in a pail. Nobody feeds me. 
I have to get my own living. I live by my wits. I have to 
be sharp and clever, lest I go hungry. I have to think 
things out, catch what I can, take what comes. And it 
just so happens, my friend, that what comes is flies and 
insects and bugs. And furthermore,” said Charlotte, 
shaking one of her legs, “do you realize that if I didn’t 
catch bugs and eat them, bugs would increase and mul- 
tiply and get so numerous that they’d destroy the earth, 
wipe out everything?” 
“哼，你没资格说我，”夏洛特说，“你的饭菜是用桶装着送来的。没人喂我。我得自己谋生。我靠自己的智慧活下去。我必须机敏聪明，否则就会挨饿。我得好好想想，能抓到什么就抓什么，有什么就吃什么。而我的朋友，碰巧的是，我抓到的都是苍蝇、昆虫和虫子。而且，”夏洛特一边说着，一边抖了抖腿，“你难道没意识到，如果我不抓虫子吃掉它们，虫子就会不断繁殖，数量多到足以毁灭地球，把一切都消灭掉吗？”

“Really?” said Wilbur. “I wouldn’t want that to hap- 
pen. Perhaps your web is a good thing after all.” 
“真的吗？”威尔伯说，“我可不希望那样发生。也许你的网终究还是件好事。”

The goose had been listening to this conversation and 
chuckling to herself. “There are a lot of things Wilbur 
doesn’t know about life,” she thought. “He’s really a 
very innocent little pig. He doesn’t even know what’s 
going to happen to him around Christmastime; he has 
no idea that Mr. Zuckerman and Lurvy are plotting to 
kill him.” And the goose raised herself a bit and poked 
her eggs a little further under her so that they would 
receive the full heat from her warm body and soft 
feathers. 
鹅一直在偷听他们的对话，不禁轻笑起来。“威尔伯对生活一无所知，”她心想，“他真是一只天真无邪的小猪。他甚至不知道圣诞节前后会发生什么；他根本不知道祖克曼先生和勒维正在密谋杀害他。”说着，鹅微微抬起身子，把蛋往下挪了挪，好让它们能充分感受到她温暖的身体和柔软的羽毛带来的热量。

Charlotte stood quietly over the fly, preparing to eat 
it. Wilbur lay down and closed his eyes. He was tired 
from his wakeful night and from the excitement of 
meeting someone for the first time. A breeze brought 
him the smell of clover — the sweet-smelling world be- 
yond his fence. “Well,” he thought, “I’ve got a new 
friend, all right. But what a gamble friendship is! Char- 
lotte is fierce, brutal, scheming, bloodthirsty — every- 
thing I don’t like. How can I learn to like her, even 
though she is pretty and, of course, clever?” 
夏洛特静静地站在苍蝇上方，准备把它吃掉。威尔伯躺下，闭上了眼睛。他因为一夜没睡和第一次见到新朋友的兴奋而感到疲惫。一阵微风带来了三叶草的香味——篱笆外那芬芳的世界。“嗯，”他想，“我确实交了个新朋友。可是友谊真是一场赌博！夏洛特凶狠、残暴、阴险、嗜血——所有我不喜欢的特质她都有。我该怎么才能喜欢上她呢？即使她很漂亮，当然也很聪明。”

Wilbur was merely suffering the doubts and fears 
that often go with finding a new friend. In good time 
he was to discover that he was mistaken about Char- 
lotte. Underneath her rather bold and cruel exterior, 
she had a kind heart, and she was to prove loyal and 
true to the very end. 
威尔伯只是像许多人一样，在结交新朋友时难免会有疑虑和恐惧。不久之后，他就会发现自己对夏洛特的看法是错误的。在她大胆而残酷的外表下，隐藏着一颗善良的心，而且她会一直忠诚不渝，直到生命的尽头。

THE EARLY summer days on a farm are the 
happiest and fairest days of the year. Lilacs 
bloom and make the air sweet, and then fade. 
Apple blossoms come with the lilacs, and the 
bees visit around among the apple trees. The days grow 
warm and soft. School ends, and children have time to 
play and to fish for trouts in the brook. Avery often 
brought a trout home in his pocket, warm and stiff and 
ready to be fried for supper. 
农场的初夏时光是一年中最快乐、最美好的日子。丁香花盛开，空气中弥漫着甜美的香气，然后渐渐凋零。苹果花与丁香花一同绽放，蜜蜂在苹果树间穿梭。天气变得温暖宜人。学校放假了，孩子们有时间玩耍，还可以去小溪里钓鳟鱼。艾弗里经常把一条鳟鱼揣在口袋里带回家，鱼身温热而略显僵硬，正好可以煎着吃。

Now that school was over, Fern visited the barn al- 
most every day, to sit quietly on her stool. The animals 
treated her as an equal. The sheep lay calmly at her feet. 
放学后，弗恩几乎每天都去谷仓，静静地坐在她的小凳子上。动物们都平等地对待她。绵羊们安静地躺在她的脚边。

Around the first of July, the work horses were 
hitched to the mowing machine, and Mr. Zuckerman 
climbed into the seat and drove into the field. All morn- 
ing you could hear the rattle of the machine as it went 
round and round, while the tall grass fell down behind 
the cutter bar in long green swathes. Next day, if there 
was no thunder shower, all hands would help rake and 
pitch and load, and the hay would be hauled to the 
barn in the high hay wagon, with Fern and Avery rid- 
ing at the top of the load. Then the hay would be 
hoisted, sweet and warm, into the big loft, until the 
whole barn seemed like a wonderful bed of timothy 
and clover. It was fine to jump in, and perfect to hide 
in. And sometimes Avery would find a little grass snake 
in the hay, and would add it to the other things in his 
pocket. 
七月初，役马套上了割草机，祖克曼先生爬上驾驶座，驶入田野。整个上午，都能听到机器转圈的咔哒声，高高的草在切割刀后成片成片地落下。第二天，如果没有雷阵雨，所有人都会帮忙耙草、铲草、装草，然后用高高的干草车把干草运到谷仓，弗恩和艾弗里坐在车顶上。接着，香甜温暖的干草会被吊进大阁楼，直到整个谷仓看起来像一张铺满梯牧草和三叶草的舒适床。跳进去很舒服，躲在里面也很完美。有时，艾弗里会在干草里发现一条小草蛇，然后把它放进自己的口袋里。

Early summer days are a jubilee time for birds. In 
the fields, around the house, in the barn, in the woods, 
in the swamp — everywhere love and songs and nests 
and eggs. From the edge of the woods, the white- 
throated sparrow (which must come all the way from 
Boston) calls, “Oh, Peabody, Peabody, Peabody! ” On 
an apple bough, the phoebe teeters and wags its tail and 
says, “Phoebe, phoe-bee!” The song sparrow, who 
knows how brief and lovely life is, says, “Sweet, sweet, 
sweet interlude; sweet, sweet, sweet interlude.” If you 
enter the barn, the swallows swoop down from their 
nests and scold. “Cheeky, cheeky!” they say. 
初夏时节，鸟儿们欢庆佳节。田野里、屋子周围、谷仓里、树林里、沼泽地里——到处都是爱、歌声、巢穴和鸟蛋。从林边，白喉麻雀（想必是从波士顿一路飞来的）鸣叫着：“哦，皮博迪，皮博迪，皮博迪！” 菲比霸鹟栖息在苹果枝上，摇着尾巴，轻声说道：“菲比，菲比！” 歌雀深知生命短暂而美好，唱道：“甜蜜，甜蜜，甜蜜的插曲；甜蜜，甜蜜，甜蜜的插曲。” 如果你走进谷仓，燕子们会从巢里俯冲下来，发出责备的声音：“厚脸皮，厚脸皮！”

In early summer there are plenty of things for a child 
to eat and drink and suck and chew. Dandelion stems 
are full of milk, clover heads are loaded with nectar, the 
Frigidaire is full of ice-cold drinks. Everywhere you 
look is life; even the little ball of spit on the weed stalk, 
if you poke it apart, has a green worm inside it. And on 
the under side of the leaf of the potato vine are the 
bright orange eggs of the potato bug. 
初夏时节，孩子们可以吃、喝、吮吸、咀嚼的东西琳琅满目。蒲公英的茎秆里满是乳汁，三叶草的花穗里盛满了花蜜，冰箱里也装满了冰镇饮料。目光所及之处皆是生机勃勃；就连杂草茎秆上那小小的唾液球，如果你把它戳开，里面还会发现一条绿色的小虫子。而马铃薯藤蔓叶片的背面，则藏着马铃薯甲虫鲜亮的橙色卵。

It was on a day in early summer that the goose eggs 
hatched. This was an important event in the barn cellar. 
Fern was there, sitting on her stool, when it happened. 
那是初夏的一天，鹅蛋破壳而出。这对于谷仓地窖来说是一件大事。费恩当时就坐在她的凳子上，亲眼目睹了这一切。

Except for the goose herself, Charlotte was the first 
to know that the goslings had at last arrived. The goose 
knew a day in advance that they were coming — she 
could hear their weak voices calling from inside the egg. 
She knew that they were in a desperately cramped po- 
sition inside the shell and were most anxious to break 
through and get out. So she sat quite still, and talked 
less than usual. 
除了夏洛特自己，她是第一个知道小鹅终于出生的。夏洛特提前一天就知道了——她能听到蛋壳里传来小鹅微弱的叫声。她知道小鹅们在蛋壳里挤得难受，迫切地想要破壳而出。所以她一动不动地坐着，比平时少说话。

When the first gosling poked its grey-green head 
through the goose’s feathers and looked around, Char- 
lotte spied it and made the announcement. 
当第一只小鹅把它灰绿色的脑袋从鹅的羽毛里探出来四处张望时，夏洛特发现了它，并宣布了这一消息。

“I am sure,” she said, “that every one of us here will 
be gratified to learn that after four weeks of unremit- 
ting effort and patience on the part of our friend the 
goose, she now has something to show for it. The gos- 
lings have arrived. May I offer my sincere congratula- 
tions! ” 
“我相信，”她说，“我们每个人都会很高兴地得知，经过我们这位鹅朋友四周不懈的努力和耐心，她终于有了成果。小鹅们出生了。请允许我向她致以最诚挚的祝贺！”

“Thank you, thank you, thank you!” said the goose, 
nodding and bowing shamelessly. 
“谢谢，谢谢，谢谢！”鹅一边说着，一边毫不羞愧地点头鞠躬。

“Thank you,” said the gander. 
“谢谢，”雄鹅说道。

“Congratulations!” shouted Wilbur. “How many 
goslings are there? I can only see one.” 
“恭喜！”威尔伯喊道，“这里有几只小鹅？我只看到一只。”

“There are seven,” said the goose. 
“有七个，”鹅说。

“Fine!” said Charlotte. “Seven is a lucky number.” 
“太好了！”夏洛特说，“七是个幸运数字。”

“Luck had nothing to do with this,” said the goose. 
“It was good management and hard work.” 
“这跟运气无关，”鹅说，“这全靠良好的管理和辛勤的工作。”

At this point, Templeton showed his nose from his 
hiding place under Wilbur’s trough. He glanced at 
Fern, then crept cautiously toward the goose, keeping 
close to the wall. Everyone watched him, for he was 
not well liked, not trusted. 
这时，坦普尔顿从威尔伯的食槽底下探出头来。他瞥了一眼弗恩，然后小心翼翼地贴着墙向鹅爬去。大家都看着他，因为他不讨人喜欢，也不被人信任。

“Look,” he began in his sharp voice, “you say you 
have seven goslings. There were eight eggs. What hap- 
pened to the other egg? Why didn’t it hatch?” 
“听着，”他用尖锐的声音说道，“你说你有七只小鹅。可是有八个蛋。另一个蛋怎么了？为什么没孵出来？”

“It’s a dud, I guess,” said the goose. 
“看来是个次品，”鹅说道。

“What are you going to do with it?” continued Tem- 
pleton, his little round beady eyes fixed on the goose. 
“你打算怎么处置它？”坦普尔顿继续问道，他那双圆溜溜的小眼睛紧紧盯着那只鹅。

“You can have it,” replied the goose. “Roll it away 
and add it to that nasty collection of yours.” (Temple- 
ton had a habit of picking up unusual objects around 
the farm and storing them in his home. He saved every- 
thing.) 
“给你吧，”鹅回答说，“把它滚走，加到你那堆恶心的收藏品里去。”（坦普尔顿有个习惯，喜欢在农场里捡些稀奇古怪的东西，然后把它们都带回家收藏。他什么都保存。）

“Certainly-ertainly-ertainly,” said the gander. “You 
may have the egg. But I’ll tell you one thing, Temple- 
ton, if I ever catch you poking-oking-oking your ugly 
nose around our goslings, I’ll give you the worst pound- 
ing a rat ever took.” And the gander opened his strong 
wings and beat the air with them to show his power. 
He was strong and brave, but the truth is, both the 
goose and the gander were worried about Templeton. 
And with good reason. The rat had no morals, no con- 
science, no scruples, no consideration, no decency, no 
milk of rodent kindness, no compunctions, no higher 
feeling, no friendliness, no anything. He would kill a 
gosling if he could get away with it — the goose knew 
that. Everybody knew it. 
“当然，当然，当然，”雄鹅说道，“蛋给你。但我告诉你，坦普尔顿，要是让我再看到你用你那丑陋的鼻子在我们小鹅旁边乱戳，我就让你尝尝老鼠这辈子挨过的最狠的揍。”说着，雄鹅展开强壮的翅膀，拍打着空气，炫耀自己的力量。它确实强壮勇敢，但事实上，母鹅和雄鹅都很担心坦普尔顿。他们的担心不无道理。这只老鼠毫无道德底线，没有良知，没有顾忌，没有同情心，没有体面，没有丝毫的善良，没有丝毫的愧疚，没有丝毫的情感，没有丝毫的友善，什么都没有。只要有机会，它就会毫不犹豫地杀死小鹅——母鹅知道这一点。每个人都知道这一点。

With her broad bill the goose pushed the unhatched 
egg out of the nest, and the entire company watched in 
disgust while the rat rolled it away. Even Wilbur, who 
could eat almost anything, was appalled. “Imagine 
wanting a junky old rotten egg!” he muttered. 
那只鹅用宽大的喙把未孵化的蛋推出巢外，所有老鼠都厌恶地看着它把蛋滚走。就连几乎什么都吃的威尔伯也感到震惊。“真不敢相信有人会想要一个又旧又臭的蛋！”它嘟囔道。

“A rat is a rat,” said Charlotte. She laughed a tinkling 
little laugh. “But, my friends, if that ancient egg ever 
breaks, this barn will be untenable.” 
“老鼠就是老鼠，”夏洛特说。她发出了一声清脆的笑声。“但是，朋友们，如果那枚古老的蛋破了，这谷仓就没法住了。”

“What’s that mean?” asked Wilbur. 
“那是什么意思？”威尔伯问道。

“It means nobody will be able to live here on account 
of the smell. A rotten egg is a regular stink bomb.” 
“这意味着没人能住在这里，因为这味道太难闻了。臭鸡蛋简直就是个臭气弹。”

“I won’t break it,” snarled Templeton. “I know 
what I’m doing. I handle stuff like this all the time.” 
“我不会弄坏它，”坦普尔顿咆哮道。“我知道自己在做什么。我经常处理这种事。”

He disappeared into his tunnel, pushing the goose 
egg in front of him. He pushed and nudged till he suc- 
ceeded in rolling it to his lair under the trough. 
他钻进隧道，把鹅蛋推到前面。他推推搡搡，终于成功地把鹅蛋滚到了食槽下的巢穴里。

That afternoon, when the wind had died down and 
the barnyard was quiet and warm, the grey goose led 
her seven goslings off the nest and out into the world. 
Mr. Zuckerman spied them when he came with Wil- 
bur’s supper. 
那天下午，风停了，院子里安静温暖，灰雁带着七只小鹅离开了巢穴，走向外面的世界。祖克曼先生端着威尔伯的晚餐来的时候，发现了它们。

“Well, hello there!” he said, smiling all over. “Let’s 
see . . . one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Seven 
baby geese. Now isn’t that lovely!” 
“哟，你好啊！”他笑着说。“让我想想……一、二、三、四、五、六、七。七只小鹅。真可爱啊！”

ILBUR liked Charlotte better and 
better each day. Her campaign against 
insects seemed sensible and useful. 
Hardly anybody around the farm had 
a good word to say for a fly. Flies spent their time pes- 
tering others. The cows hated them. The horses de- 
tested them. The sheep loathed them. Mr. and Mrs. 
Zuckerman were always complaining about them, and 
putting up screens. 
伊尔伯一天比一天更喜欢夏洛特。她发起的灭虫运动看起来既明智又有效。农场里几乎没人会说苍蝇的好话。苍蝇整天骚扰别人。牛讨厌它们，马厌恶它们，羊憎恨它们。祖克曼夫妇总是抱怨苍蝇，还装上了遮挡物。

Wilbur admired the way Charlotte managed. He was 
particularly glad that she always put her victim to sleep 
before eating it. 
威尔伯很佩服夏洛特的处事方式。他尤其赞赏她总是先让猎物睡着再吃掉。

“It’s real thoughtful of you to do that, Charlotte,” 
he said. 
“夏洛特，你这样做真是太贴心了，”他说。

“Yes,” she replied in her sweet, musical voice, “I al- 
ways give them an anaesthetic so they won’t feel pain. 
It’s a little service I throw in.” 
“是的，”她用甜美悦耳的声音回答道，“我总是给他们用麻醉剂，这样他们就不会感到疼痛。这是我提供的一项小服务。”

As the days went by, Wilbur grew and grew. He ate 
three big meals a day. He spent long hours lying on his 
side, half asleep, dreaming pleasant dreams. He enjoyed 
good health and he gained a lot of weight. One after- 
noon, when Fern was sitting on her stool, the oldest 
sheep walked into the barn, and stopped to pay a call 
on Wilbur. 
日子一天天过去，威尔伯越长越大。他每天吃三顿丰盛的大餐。他常常侧身躺着，半睡半醒，做着美梦。他身体健康，体重也增加了不少。一天下午，弗恩正坐在凳子上，这时，年纪最大的那只羊走进了羊圈，停下来拜访威尔伯。

“Hello!” she said. “Seems to me you’re putting on 
weight.” 
“你好！”她说，“我看你好像胖了。”

“Yes, I guess I am,” replied Wilbur. “At my age it’s 
a good idea to keep gaining.” 
“是的，我想我的确是，”威尔伯回答说。“我这把年纪，继续增重是件好事。”

“Just the same, I don’t envy you,” said the old sheep. 
“You know why they’re fattening you up, don’t you?” 
“No,” said Wilbur. 
“即便如此，我也不羡慕你，”老羊说。“你知道他们为什么要把你养肥，对吧？”“不知道，”威尔伯说。

“Well, I don’t like to spread bad news,” said the 
sheep, “but they’re fattening you up because they’re 
going to kill you, that’s why.” 
“唉，我不喜欢散播坏消息，”绵羊说，“但他们把你养肥是因为他们要杀了你，就是这样。”

“They’re going to what}" screamed Wilbur. Fern 
grew rigid on her stool. 
“他们要去哪儿？”威尔伯尖叫道。弗恩僵硬地坐在凳子上。

“Kill you. Turn you into smoked bacon and ham,” 
continued the old sheep. “Almost all young pigs get 
murdered by the farmer as soon as the real cold weather 
sets in. There’s a regular conspiracy around here to kill 
you at Christmastime. Everybody is in the plot — 
Lurvy, Zuckerman, even John Arable.” 
“杀了你。把你做成熏肉和火腿，”老羊继续说道。“几乎所有的小猪一到真正寒冷的天气，都会被农夫杀掉。这附近一直有人密谋在圣诞节期间杀了你。每个人都参与其中——卢维、祖克曼，甚至连约翰·阿拉布尔也不例外。”

“Mr. Arable?” sobbed Wilbur. “Fern’s father?” 
“Certainly. When a pig is to be butchered, every- 
body helps. I’m an old sheep and I see the same thing, 
same old business, year after year. Arable arrives with 
his .22, shoots the . . .” 
“Stop!” screamed Wilbur. “I don’t want to die! 
Save me, somebody! Save me!” Fern was just about to 
jump up when a voice was heard. 
“阿拉布尔先生？”威尔伯抽泣着说，“弗恩的爸爸？”“当然。宰猪的时候，大家都会帮忙。我这只老羊，年复一年，都看到同样的场景，同样的套路。阿拉布尔带着他的.22口径手枪来了，开枪……”“住手！”威尔伯尖叫道，“我不想死！救救我，谁来救救我！”弗恩正要跳起来，这时一个声音传来。

“Be quiet, Wilbur!” said Charlotte, who had been 
listening to this awful conversation. 
“安静点，威尔伯！”夏洛特说道，她一直在偷听这段糟糕的对话。

“I can’t be quiet,” screamed Wilbur, racing up and 
down. “I don’t want to be killed. I don’t want to die. Is 
it true what the old sheep says, Charlotte? Is it true 
they are going to kill me when the cold weather 
comes?” 
“我安静不下来！”威尔伯一边跑上跑下一边尖叫道，“我不想被杀！我不想死！夏洛特，那只老绵羊说的是真的吗？天冷的时候他们真的会杀了我吗？”

“Well,” said the spider, plucking thoughtfully at her 
web, “the old sheep has been around this barn a long 
time. She has seen many a spring pig come and go. If 
she says they plan to kill you, I’m sure it’s true. It’s also 
the dirtiest trick I ever heard of. What people don’t 
think of!” 
“嗯，”蜘蛛一边若有所思地拨弄着蛛网一边说，“这只老母羊在这谷仓附近待了很久了。她见过多少来来往往的春猪啊。如果她说它们打算杀了你，我敢肯定这是真的。而且，这还是我听过的最卑鄙的伎俩。人们真是想都不敢想！”

Wilbur burst into tears. “I don’t want to die,” he 
moaned. “I want to stay alive, right here in my com- 
fortable manure pile with all my friends. I want to 
breathe the beautiful air and lie in the beautiful sun.” 
威尔伯突然嚎啕大哭起来。“我不想死，”他呻吟道，“我想活下去，就待在我这舒适的粪堆里，和我的所有朋友在一起。我想呼吸这美好的空气，沐浴在这温暖的阳光下。”

“You’re certainly making a beautiful noise,” snapped 
the old sheep. 
“你发出的声音真美妙，”老羊厉声说道。

“I don’t want to die!” screamed Wilbur, throwing 
himself to the ground. 
“我不想死！”威尔伯尖叫着，扑倒在地。

“You shall not die,” said Charlotte, briskly. 
“你不会死的，”夏洛特干脆利落地说道。

“What? Really?” cried Wilbur, “Who’s going to 
save me?” 
“什么？真的吗？”威尔伯喊道，“谁来救我？”

“I am,” said Charlotte. 
“我是，”夏洛特说。

“How?” asked Wilbur.   “怎么会这样？”威尔伯问道。

“That remains to be seen. But I am going to save you, 
and I want you to quiet down immediately. You’re car- 
rying on in a childish way. Stop your crying! I can’t 
stand hysterics.” 
“这还有待观察。但我会救你，我希望你立刻安静下来。你现在的行为像个孩子。别哭了！我受不了歇斯底里。”

ON SUNDAY morning Mr. and Mrs. Arable 
k and Fern were sitting at breakfast in the 
' kitchen. Avery had finished and was up- 
stairs looking for his slingshot. 
星期天早上，阿拉布尔先生和太太以及弗恩正在厨房里吃早餐。艾弗里已经吃完了，正在楼上找他的弹弓。

“Did you know that Uncle Homer’s goslings had 
hatched?” asked Fern. 
“你知道霍默叔叔的小鹅孵出来了吗？”弗恩问道。

“How many?” asked Mr. Arable. 
“有多少个？”阿拉布尔先生问道。

“Seven,” replied Fern. “There were eight eggs but 
one egg didn’t hatch and the goose told Templeton she 
didn’t want it any more, so he took it away.” 
“七个，”弗恩回答说。“本来有八个蛋，但有一个蛋没孵出来，那只鹅告诉坦普尔顿她不要了，所以他就把蛋拿走了。”

“The goose did what?” asked Mrs. Arable, gazing at 
her daughter with a queer, worried look. 
“那只鹅做了什么？”阿拉布尔太太问道，她用一种古怪而担忧的眼神望着女儿。

“Told Templeton she didn’t want the egg any more,” 
repeated Fern. 
“她告诉坦普尔顿她不再想要那个蛋了，”费恩重复道。

“Who is Templeton?” asked Mrs. Arable. 
“坦普尔顿是谁？”阿拉布尔太太问道。

“He’s the rat,” replied Fern. “None of us like him 
much.” 
“他就是那只老鼠，”弗恩回答说。“我们都不喜欢他。”

“Who’s ‘us’?” asked Mr. Arable. 
“‘我们’指的是谁？”阿拉布尔先生问道。

“Oh, everybody in the barn cellar. Wilbur and the 
sheep and the lambs and the goose and the gander and 
the goslings and Charlotte and me.” 
“哦，谷仓地窖里的所有动物。威尔伯、绵羊、小羊羔、鹅、雄鹅、小鹅、夏洛特和我。”

“Charlotte?” said Mrs. Arable. “Who’s Charlotte?” 
“She’s Wilbur’s best friend. She’s terribly clever.” 
“What does she look like?” asked Mrs. Arable. 
“Well-1,” said Fern, thoughtfully, “she has eight legs. 
All spiders do, I guess.” 
“夏洛特？”阿拉布尔太太问。“夏洛特是谁？”“她是威尔伯最好的朋友。她非常聪明。”“她长什么样？”阿拉布尔太太问。“嗯……她有八条腿。我想所有的蜘蛛都是这样吧。”

“Charlotte is a spider?” asked Fern’s mother. 
“夏洛特是只蜘蛛吗？”弗恩的妈妈问道。

Fern nodded. “A big grey one. She has a web across 
the top of Wilbur’s doorway. She catches flies and 
sucks their blood. Wilbur adores her.” 
弗恩点点头。“一只很大的灰色蜘蛛。它在威尔伯家门口织了一张网。它捉苍蝇，吸它们的血。威尔伯很喜欢它。”

“Does he really?” said Mrs. Arable, rather vaguely. 
She was staring at Fern with a worried expression on 
her face. 
“他真的吗？”阿拉布尔太太含糊地问道。她一脸担忧地盯着弗恩。

“Oh, yes, Wilbur adores Charlotte,” said Fern. “Do 
you know what Charlotte said when the goslings 
hatched?” 
“哦，是的，威尔伯非常喜欢夏洛特，”弗恩说。“你知道小鹅破壳而出时夏洛特说了什么吗？”

“I haven’t the faintest idea,” said Mr. Arable. “Tell 
us.” 
“我一点头绪都没有，”阿拉布尔先生说。“告诉我们吧。”

“Well, when the first gosling stuck its little head out 
from under the goose, I was sitting on my stool in the 
corner and Charlotte was on her web. She made a 
speech. She said: ‘I am sure that every one of us here 
in the bam cellar will be gratified to learn that after 
four weeks of unremitting effort and patience on the 
part of the goose, she now has something to show for 
it.’ Don’t you think that was a pleasant thing for her to 
say?” 
“嗯，当第一只小鹅从母鹅底下探出小脑袋的时候，我正坐在角落的凳子上，夏洛特正在织网。她发表了一番讲话。她说：‘我相信，我们这些在地窖里的人听到这话都会很高兴，因为这只母鹅经过四个星期的不懈努力和耐心，终于有了成果。’你不觉得她说的这番话很令人高兴吗？”

“Yes, I do,” said Mrs. Arable. “And now, Fern, it’s 
time to get ready for Sunday School. And tell Avery 
to get ready. And this afternoon you can tell me more 
about what goes on in Uncle Homer’s bam. Aren’t you 
spending quite a lot of time there? You go there almost 
every afternoon, don’t you?” 
“是的，我知道，”阿拉布尔太太说。“弗恩，现在该准备去主日学校了。告诉艾弗里也准备好。今天下午你可以跟我多说说霍默叔叔家的情况。你是不是经常去那里？几乎每天下午都去，对吧？”

“I like it there,” replied Fern. She wiped her mouth 
and ran upstairs. After she had left the room, Mrs. 
Arable spoke in a low voice to her husband. 
“我喜欢那里，”弗恩回答道。她擦了擦嘴，跑上楼去。她离开房间后，阿拉布尔太太低声对丈夫说了几句话。

“I worry about Fern,” she said. “Did you hear the 
way she rambled on about the animals, pretending that 
they talked?” 
“我担心弗恩，”她说。“你听到她滔滔不绝地讲那些动物了吗？她还假装那些动物会说话呢！”

Mr. Arable chuckled. “Maybe they do talk,” he said. 
“I’ve sometimes wondered. At any rate, don’t worry 
about Fern — she’s just got a lively imagination. Kids 
think they hear all sorts of things.” 
阿拉布尔先生轻笑了一声。“也许他们真的会说话，”他说，“我有时也想过这个问题。总之，别担心弗恩——她只是想象力丰富而已。孩子们总觉得自己能听到各种各样的事情。”

“Just the same, I do worry about her,” replied Mrs. 
Arable. “I think I shall ask Dr. Dorian about her the 
next time I see him. He loves Fem almost as much as 
we do, and I want him to know how queerly she is act- 
ing about that pig and everything. I don’t think it’s nor- 
mal. You know perfectly well animals don’t talk.” 
“即便如此，我还是挺担心她的，”阿拉布尔太太回答说。“我想下次见到多里安医生时问问他关于她的事。他几乎和我们一样爱费姆，我想让他知道她对那头猪以及所有事情的反应有多么奇怪。我觉得这不正常。您也知道，动物是不会说话的。”

Mr. Arable grinned. “Maybe our ears aren’t as sharp 
as Fern’s,” he said. 
阿拉布尔先生咧嘴一笑。“也许我们的耳朵不如弗恩灵敏，”他说。

A SPIDER’S web is stronger than it looks. Al- 
/ 1 though it is made of thin, delicate strands, 
the web is not easily broken. However, a 
_JL JL web gets tom every day by the insects that 
kick around in it, and a spider must rebuild it when it 
gets full of holes. Charlotte liked to do her weaving 
during the late afternoon, and Fern liked to sit nearby 
and watch. One afternoon she heard a most interesting 
conversation and witnessed a strange event. 
蜘蛛网比看起来要结实得多。虽然它是由细而脆弱的丝线织成的，但并不容易被破坏。然而，蜘蛛网每天都会被在里面翻来覆去的昆虫破坏，蜘蛛必须在网布满破洞时重新织网。夏洛特喜欢在傍晚织网，弗恩喜欢坐在附近观看。一天下午，她听到了一段非常有趣的对话，并目睹了一件奇怪的事情。

“You have awfully hairy legs, Charlotte,” said Wil- 
bur, as the spider busily worked at her task. 
“夏洛特，你的腿毛真多啊，”威尔伯说，蜘蛛正忙着工作。

“My legs are hairy for a good reason,” replied Char- 
lotte. “Furthermore, each leg of mine has seven sec- 
tions — the coxa, the trochanter, the femur, the patella, 
the tibia, the metatarsus, and the tarsus.” 
“我的腿毛浓密是有原因的，”夏洛特回答说。“此外，我的每条腿都有七个部分——髋骨、大转子、股骨、髌骨、胫骨、跖骨和跗骨。”

Wilbur sat bolt upright. “You’re kidding,” he said. 
威尔伯猛地坐直了身子。“你在开玩笑吧？”他说。

“No, I’m not, either.” 
“不，我也不是。”

“Say those names again, I didn’t catch them the first 
time.” 
“再说一遍那些名字，我第一次没听清。”

“Coxa, trochanter, femur, patella, tibia, metatarsus, 
and tarsus.” 
“基节、转子、股骨、髌骨、胫骨、跖骨和跗骨。”

“Goodness!” said Wilbur, looking down at his own 
chubby legs. “I don’t think my legs have seven sec- 
tions.” 
“我的天哪！”威尔伯低头看着自己胖乎乎的腿说，“我的腿好像没有七节。”

“Well,” said Charlotte, “you and I lead different 
lives. You don’t have to spin a web. That takes real leg 
work.” 
“嗯，”夏洛特说，“你和我过着不同的生活。你不需要编织谎言之网。那需要付出真正的努力。”

“I could spin a web if I tried,” said Wilbur, boasting. 
“I’ve just never tried.” 
“如果我想的话，我也可以织网，”威尔伯吹嘘道，“我只是从来没试过。”

“Let’s see you do it,” said Charlotte. Fern chuckled 
softly, and her eyes grew wide with love for the pig. 
“让我看看你怎么做到，”夏洛特说。弗恩轻轻地笑了，眼里充满了对这只猪的爱意。

“O.K.,” replied Wilbur. “You coach me and I’ll spin 
one. It must be a lot of fun to spin a web. How do I 
start?” 
“好的，”威尔伯回答说，“你指导我，我来织一张网。织网一定很有趣。我该怎么开始呢？”

“Take a deep breath!” said Charlotte, smiling. Wil- 
bur breathed deeply. “Now climb to the highest place 
you can get to, like this.” Charlotte raced up to the top 
of the doorway. Wilbur scrambled to the top of the 
manure pile. 
“深呼吸！”夏洛特笑着说。威尔伯深吸了一口气。“现在爬到你能爬到的最高处，像这样。”夏洛特飞快地爬到了门框顶上。威尔伯则爬到了粪堆顶上。

“Very good!” said Charlotte. “Now make an attach- 
ment with your spinnerets, hurl yourself into space, 
and let out a dragline as you go down!” 
“很好！”夏洛特说。“现在用你的纺丝器连接好，把自己抛向太空，然后在下落的过程中放出一根牵引线！”

Wilbur hesitated a moment, then jumped out into 
the air. He glanced hastily behind to see if a piece of 
rope was following him to check his fall, but nothing 
seemed to be happening in his rear, and the next thing 
he knew he landed with a thump. “Ooomp!” he 
grunted. 
威尔伯犹豫了一下，然后纵身一跃。他慌忙回头看了一眼，想看看有没有绳子跟在他身后缓冲下落，但身后似乎什么也没发生，下一秒他就“砰”的一声摔在了地上。“哎哟！”他闷哼了一声。

Charlotte laughed so hard her web began to sway. 
“What did I do wrong?” asked the pig, when he re- 
covered from his bump. 
夏洛特笑得蛛网都摇晃起来。“我做错了什么？”小猪从肚子上爬起来后问道。

“Nothing,” said Charlotte. “It was a nice try.” 
“没什么，”夏洛特说。“尝试得不错。”

“I think I’ll try again,” said Wilbur, cheerfully. “I 
believe what I need is a little piece of string to hold me.” 
The pig walked out to his yard. “You there, Temple- 
ton?” he called. The rat poked his head out from under 
the trough. 
“我想我再试一次，”威尔伯兴高采烈地说，“我想我需要一根小绳子把我拴住。” 这头猪走到院子里。“你在吗，坦普尔顿？”他喊道。老鼠从食槽底下探出头来。

“Got a little piece of string I could borrow?” asked 
Wilbur. “I need it to spin a web.” 
“你能借我一小段绳子吗？”威尔伯问，“我需要它来织网。”

“Yes, indeed,” replied Templeton, who saved string. 
“No trouble at all. Anything to oblige.” He crept 
down into his hole, pushed the goose egg out of the 
way, and returned with an old piece of dirty white 
string. Wilbur examined it. 
“是的，的确如此，”坦普尔顿答道，他正忙着收集绳子。“没问题。乐意效劳。”他爬进洞里，把鹅蛋推开，然后拿着一根脏兮兮的旧白绳子回来了。威尔伯仔细看了看。

“That’s just the thing,” he said. “Tie one end to my 
tail, will you, Templeton?” 
“正是如此，”他说。“把一头系在我的尾巴上，好吗，坦普尔顿？”

Wilbur crouched low, with his thin, curly tail toward 
the rat. Templeton seized the string, passed it around 
the end of the pig’s tail, and tied two half hitches. Char- 
lotte watched in delight. Like Fern, she was truly fond 
of Wilbur, whose smelly pen and stale food attracted 
the flies that she needed, and she was proud to see that 
he was not a quitter and was willing to try again to spin 
a web. 
威尔伯低伏着身子，细长的卷尾朝向老鼠。坦普尔顿抓起绳子，绕过猪尾巴的末端，打了两个半结。夏洛特在一旁兴高采烈地看着。和弗恩一样，她也很喜欢威尔伯，它那散发着臭味的猪圈和变质的食物吸引了她需要的苍蝇，而且她很自豪地看到它没有放弃，愿意再次尝试织网。

While the rat and the spider and the little girl 
watched, Wilbur climbed again to the top of the ma- 
nure pile, full of energy and hope. 
在老鼠、蜘蛛和小女孩的注视下，威尔伯再次爬上了粪堆的顶端，充满了活力和希望。

“Everybody watch! ” he cried. And summoning all 
his strength, he threw himself into the air, headfirst. 
The string trailed behind him. But as he had neglected 
to fasten the other end to anything, it didn’t really do 
any good, and Wilbur landed with a thud, crushed and 
hurt. Tears came to his eyes. Templeton grinned. Char- 
lotte just sat quietly. After a bit she spoke. 
“大家快看！”他喊道。然后他使出浑身力气，头朝下纵身跃向空中。绳子在他身后拖曳。但他忘了把绳子的另一端系在什么东西上，所以绳子根本起不到作用，威尔伯重重地摔在地上，又重又疼。他眼泪汪汪。坦普尔顿咧嘴一笑。夏洛特静静地坐着。过了一会儿，她开口说话了。

“You can’t spin a web, Wilbur, and I advise you to 
put the idea out of your mind. You lack two things 
needed for spinning a web.” 
“威尔伯，你根本不会织网，我劝你还是打消这个念头吧。你缺少织网所需的两样东西。”

“What are they?” asked Wilbur, sadly. 
“它们是什么？”威尔伯悲伤地问道。

“You lack a set of spinnerets, and you lack know- 
how. But cheer up, you don’t need a web. Zuckerman 
supplies you with three big meals a day. Why should 
you worry about trapping food?” 
“你既没有纺丝器，也没有相关知识。不过别担心，你不需要蛛网。祖克曼每天给你提供三顿丰盛的饭菜。你何必费心去捕猎食物呢？”

Wilbur sighed. “You’re ever so much cleverer and 
brighter than I am, Charlotte. I guess I was just trying 
to show off. Serves me right.” 
威尔伯叹了口气。“夏洛特，你比我聪明得多，也聪明得多。我想我只是想炫耀一下。活该。”

Templeton untied his string and took it back to his 
home. Charlotte returned to her weaving. 
坦普尔顿解开线，把它带回了家。夏洛特则继续织布。

“You needn’t feel too badly, Wilbur,” she said. “Not 
many creatures can spin webs. Even men aren’t as good 
at it as spiders, although they think they’re pretty good, 
and they’ll try anything. Did you ever hear of the 
Queensborough Bridge?” 
“威尔伯，你不用太难过，”她说。“会织网的生物不多。即使是人类，织网的本事也比不上蜘蛛，尽管他们自认为很厉害，而且什么都敢尝试。你听说过昆斯伯勒桥吗？”

Wilbur shook his head. “Is it a web?” 
威尔伯摇了摇头。“这是蜘蛛网吗？”

“Sort of,” replied Charlotte. “But do you know how 
long it took men to build it? Eight whole years. My 
goodness, I would have starved to death waiting that 
long. I can make a web in a single evening.” 
“算是吧，”夏洛特回答说，“不过你知道人们花了多长时间才造好它吗？整整八年。我的天哪，要是我等那么久，早就饿死了。我一个晚上就能织好一张网。”

“What do people catch in the Queensborough Bridge 
— bugs?” asked Wilbur. 
威尔伯问道：“人们在昆斯伯勒桥上会抓到什么——虫子吗？”

“No,” said Charlotte. “They don’t catch anything. 
They just keep trotting back and forth across the 
bridge thinking there is something better on the other 
side. If they’d hang head-down at the top of the thing 
and wait quietly, maybe something good would come 
along. But no — with men it’s rush, rush, rush, every 
minute. I’m glad I’m a sedentary spider.” 
“不，”夏洛特说，“他们什么也抓不到。他们只是不停地在桥上来回踱步，以为桥对面会有更好的猎物。如果他们能低着头挂在桥顶上安静地等着，也许就会有好东西出现。可是不行——男人总是忙忙碌碌，每分每秒都在奔波。我很高兴自己是一只安静的蜘蛛。”

“What does sedentary mean? ” asked Wilbur. 
“久坐不动是什么意思？”威尔伯问道。

“Means I sit still a good part of the time and don’t 
go wandering all over creation. I know a good thing 
when I see it, and my web is a good thing. I stay put 
and wait for what comes. Gives me a chance to think.” 
“这意味着我大部分时间都静静地坐着，不会到处游荡。我懂得分辨好坏，而我的网就是一件好事。我安顿下来，等待事情的发生。这让我有机会思考。”

“Well, I’m sort of sedentary myself, I guess,” said 
the pig. “I have to hang around here whether I want to 
or not. You know where I’d really like to be this eve- 
ning?” 
“嗯，我猜我自己也挺闲的，”猪说。“不管我愿不愿意，都得待在这儿。你知道我今晚最想去哪儿吗？”

“Where?”   “在哪里？”

“In a forest looking for beechnuts and truffles and 
delectable roots, pushing leaves aside with my wonder- 
ful strong nose, searching and sniffing along the ground, 
smelling, smelling, smelling . . .” 
“在森林里寻找山毛榉果、松露和美味的根茎，用我神奇而灵敏的鼻子拨开落叶，沿着地面搜寻和嗅闻，闻啊闻啊闻……”

“You smell just the way you are,” remarked a lamb 
who had just walked in. “I can smell you from here. 
You’re the smelliest creature in the place.” 
“你这味道真够呛，”一只刚走进来的小羊羔说道，“我从这儿都能闻到你的味道。你是这儿最臭的家伙。”

Wilbur hung his head. His eyes grew wet with tears. 
Charlotte noticed his embarrassment and she spoke 
sharply to the lamb. 
威尔伯低下了头，眼眶里噙满了泪水。夏洛特注意到他的窘迫，便严厉地训斥了这只小羊。

“Let Wilbur alone!” she said. “He has a perfect 
right to smell, considering his surroundings. You’re no 
bundle of sweet peas yourself. Furthermore, you are 
interrupting a very pleasant conversation. What were 
we talking about, Wilbur, when we were so rudely in- 
terrupted?” 
“别管威尔伯了！”她说。“考虑到他所处的环境，他完全有权利闻闻。你自己也不是什么好人。而且，你打断了我们愉快的谈话。威尔伯，我们刚才在聊什么呢，怎么突然被你这么粗鲁地打断了？”

“Oh, I don’t remember,” said Wilbur. “It doesn’t 
make any difference. Let’s not talk any more for a 
while, Charlotte. I’m getting sleepy. You go ahead and 
finish fixing your web and I’ll just lie here and watch 
you. It’s a lovely evening.” Wilbur stretched out on 
his side. 
“哦，我不记得了，”威尔伯说。“没关系。夏洛特，我们先别说话了。我有点困了。你先去修你的蛛网吧，我就躺在这儿看着你。真是个美好的夜晚。”威尔伯说着，侧身躺了下来。

Twilight settled over Zuckerman’s barn, and a feel- 
ing of peace. Fern knew it was almost suppertime but 
she couldn’t bear to leave. Swallows passed on silent 
wings, in and out of the doorways, bringing food to 
their young ones. From across the road a bird sang 
“Whippoorwill, whippoorwill! ” Lurvy sat down under 
an apple tree and lit his pipe; the animals sniffed the 
familiar smell of strong tobacco. Wilbur heard the trill 
of the tree toad and the occasional slamming of the 
kitchen door. All these sounds made him feel comfort- 
able and happy, for he loved life and loved to be a part 
of the world on a summer evening. But as he lay there 
he remembered what the old sheep had told him. The 
thought of death came to him and he began to tremble 
with fear. 
暮色笼罩着祖克曼的谷仓，一片宁静祥和。弗恩知道快到晚饭时间了，却舍不得离开。燕子无声地飞过，进出谷仓的门廊，给幼鸟们带回食物。马路对面传来一声鸟鸣：“夜鹰，夜鹰！” 勒维坐在苹果树下，点燃了烟斗；动物们嗅着熟悉的浓烈烟草味。威尔伯听到树蟾的鸣叫声，以及偶尔厨房门砰砰的关门声。所有这些声音都让他感到舒适和快乐，因为他热爱生活，热爱在这个夏日的傍晚成为这世界的一部分。但当他躺在那里时，他想起了老绵羊告诉他的话。死亡的念头涌上心头，他开始恐惧地颤抖起来。

“Charlotte?” he said, softly. 
“夏洛特？”他轻声问道。

“Yes, Wilbur?”   “是的，威尔伯？”

“I don’t want to die.” 
“我不想死。”

‘Of course you don’t,” said Charlotte in a comfort- 
ing voice. 
“你当然不会，”夏洛特安慰地说。

“I just love it here in the barn,” said Wilbur. “I love 
everything about this place.” 
“Of course you do,” said Charlotte. “We all do.” 
The goose appeared, followed by her seven goslings. 
They thrust their little necks out and kept up a musical 
whistling, like a tiny troupe of pipers. Wilbur listened 
to the sound with love in his heart. 
“我太喜欢谷仓这里了，”威尔伯说，“我喜欢这里的一切。”“当然啦，”夏洛特说，“我们都喜欢。”母鹅出现了，后面跟着七只小鹅。它们伸出小脖子，吹起了悦耳的口哨，像一群小小的风笛手。威尔伯满怀爱意地听着这声音。

“Charlotte?” he said.   “夏洛特？”他问道。

“Yes?” said the spider. 
“是吗？”蜘蛛说。

“Were you serious when you promised you would 
keep them from killing me?” 
“你当初承诺会阻止他们杀我，你是认真的吗？”

“I was never more serious in my life. I am not going 
to let you die, Wilbur.” 
“我这辈子从来没有这么认真过。我不会让你死的，威尔伯。”

“How are you going to save me?” asked Wilbur, 
whose curiosity was very strong on this point. 
“你们打算怎么救我？”威尔伯问道，他对这个问题非常好奇。

“Well,” said Charlotte, vaguely, “I don’t really 
know. But I’m working on a plan.” 
“嗯，”夏洛特含糊地说，“我也不太清楚。但我正在制定计划。”

“That’s wonderful,” said Wilbur. “How is the plan 
coming, Charlotte? Have you got very far with it? Is 
it coming along pretty well?” Wilbur was trembling 
again, but Charlotte was cool and collected. 
“太好了，”威尔伯说。“夏洛特，计划进行得怎么样了？进展如何？一切顺利吗？”威尔伯又开始颤抖起来，但夏洛特却镇定自若。

“Oh, it’s coming all right,” she said, lightly. “The 
plan is still in its early stages and hasn’t completely 
shaped up yet, but I’m working on it.” 
“哦，一切都在顺利进行中，”她轻松地说。“计划还处于早期阶段，还没有完全成型，但我正在努力。”

“When do you work on it?” begged Wilbur. 
“你什么时候开始做？”威尔伯恳求道。

“When I’m hanging head-down at the top of my 
web. That’s when I do my thinking, because then all 
the blood is in my head.” 
“当我头朝下挂在蛛网顶端时，我才会思考，因为那时血液都流向了我的头部。”

“I’d be only too glad to help in any way I can.” 
“我非常乐意尽我所能提供帮助。”


“Oh, I’ll work it out alone,” said Charlotte. “I can 
think better if I think alone.” 
“哦，我自己想办法吧，”夏洛特说。“我一个人思考的时候思路更清晰。”

“All right,” said Wilbur. “But don’t fail to let me 
know if there’s anything I can do to help, no matter 
how slight.” 
“好的，”威尔伯说，“不过，如果有什么我能帮忙的，哪怕只是微不足道的小事，都请务必告诉我。”

“Well,” replied Charlotte, “you must try to build 
yourself up. I want you to get plenty of sleep, and stop 
worrying. Never hurry and never worry! Chew your 
food thoroughly and eat every bit of it, except you 
must leave just enough for Templeton. Gain weight 
and stay well — that’s the way you can help. Keep fit, 
and don’t lose your nerve. Do you think you under- 
stand?” 
“嗯，”夏洛特回答说，“你得努力振作起来。我希望你睡个好觉，别再胡思乱想了。千万别着急，也别担心！吃饭要细嚼慢咽，一口都吃完，不过要给坦普尔顿留一点。长胖点，保持健康——这样你才能帮上忙。保持体形，别慌张。你明白了吗？”

“Yes, I understand,” said Wilbur. 
“是的，我明白了。”威尔伯说。

“Go along to bed, then,” said Charlotte. “Sleep is im- 
portant.” 
“那就去睡觉吧，”夏洛特说。“睡眠很重要。”

Wilbur trotted over to the darkest corner of his pen 
and threw himself down. He closed his eyes. In another 
minute he spoke. 
威尔伯小跑到猪圈最黑暗的角落，一屁股坐了下来，闭上了眼睛。过了一会儿，他开口说话了。

“Charlotte?” he said.   “夏洛特？”他问道。

“Yes, Wilbur?”   “是的，威尔伯？”

“May I go out to my trough and see if I left any of 
my supper? I think I left just a tiny bit of mashed po- 
tato.” 
“我可以去我的食槽看看我晚饭还有没有剩吗？我想我只剩了一点点土豆泥。”

“Very well,” said Charlotte. “But I want you in bed 
again without delay.” 
“很好，”夏洛特说，“但我希望你立刻回到床上。”

Wilbur started to race out to his yard. 
“Slowly, slowly!” said Charlotte. “Never hurry and 
never worry!” 
威尔伯开始飞奔向他的院子。“慢点，慢点！”夏洛特说。“别着急，也别担心！”

Wilbur checked himself and crept slowly to his 
trough. He found a bit of potato, chewed it carefully, 
swallowed it, and walked back to bed. He closed his 
eyes and was silent for a while. 
威尔伯检查了一下自己，然后慢慢地爬到食槽边。他找到一小块土豆，仔细地咀嚼，咽了下去，然后走回床上。他闭上眼睛，沉默了一会儿。

“Charlotte?” he said, in a whisper. 
“夏洛特？”他低声问道。

“Yes?”   “是的？”

“May I get a drink of milk? I think there are a few 
drops of milk left in my trough.” 
“我可以喝点牛奶吗？我的槽里好像还剩几滴牛奶。”

“No, the trough is dry, and I want you to go to sleep. 
No more talking! Close your eyes and go to sleep!” 
Wilbur shut his eyes. Fern got up from her stool and 
started for home, her mind full of everything she had 
seen and heard. 
“不行，食槽干了，你该睡觉了。别说话了！闭上眼睛睡觉！”威尔伯闭上了眼睛。弗恩从凳子上站起来，往家走去，脑子里全是刚才看到和听到的一切。

“Good night, Charlotte! ” said Wilbur. 
“晚安，夏洛特！”威尔伯说。

“Good night, Wilbur!”   “晚安，威尔伯！”

There was a pause. 
一阵沉默。

“Good night, Charlotte!” 
“晚安，夏洛特！”

“Good night, Wilbur!”   “晚安，威尔伯！”

“Good night!”   “晚安！”

“Good night!”   “晚安！”

DAY AFTER day the spider waited, head- 
| down, for an idea to come to her. Hour by 
' hour she sat motionless, deep in thought. 
Having promised Wilbur that she would 
save his life, she was determined to keep her promise. 
Charlotte was naturally patient. She knew from ex- 
perience that if she waited long enough, a fly would 
come to her web; and she felt sure that if she thought 
long enough about Wilbur’s problem, an idea would 
come to her mind. 
日复一日，蜘蛛夏洛特低着头，等待着灵感的降临。她一动不动地坐着，沉思良久。她答应过威尔伯要救他的命，所以决心信守诺言。夏洛特天生就很有耐心。她从经验中得知，只要等待足够长的时间，总会有苍蝇飞到她的网上；她也相信，只要她认真思考威尔伯的问题，就一定能想到办法。

Finally, one morning toward the middle of July, the 
idea came. “Why, how perfectly simple!” she said to 
herself. “The way to save Wilbur’s life is to play a 
trick on Zuckerman. If I can fool a bug,” thought Char- 
lotte, “I can surely fool a man. People are not as smart 
as bugs.” 
终于，在七月中旬的一个早晨，她灵光一闪。“哎呀，这主意真是太简单了！”她自言自语道。“救威尔伯的命的办法就是捉弄一下祖克曼。如果我能骗过一只虫子，”夏洛特心想，“我肯定也能骗过一个人。人可没虫子聪明。”

Wilbur walked into his yard just at that moment. 
就在这时，威尔伯走进了他的院子。

“What are you thinking about, Charlotte?” he asked. 
“夏洛特，你在想什么呢？”他问道。

“I was just thinking,” said the spider, “that people 
are very gullible.” 
“我刚才就在想，”蜘蛛说，“人们真是太容易上当受骗了。”

“What does ‘gullible’ mean?” 
“‘容易上当受骗’是什么意思？”

“Easy to fool,” said Charlotte. 
“很容易上当，”夏洛特说。

“That’s a mercy,” replied Wilbur, and he lay down 
in the shade of his fence and went fast asleep. The 
spider, however, stayed wide awake, gazing affection- 
ately at him and making plans for his future. Summer 
was half gone. She knew she didn’t have much time. 
“真是万幸，”威尔伯答道，然后躺在篱笆的阴凉处，很快就睡着了。然而，蜘蛛却精神抖擞，深情地凝视着他，盘算着自己的未来。夏天已经过去一半了。她知道自己时间不多了。


That morning, just as Wilbur fell asleep, Avery 
Arable wandered into the Zuckerman’s front yard, fol- 
lowed by Fern. Avery carried a live frog in his hand. 
那天早上，威尔伯刚睡着，艾弗里·阿拉布尔就溜进了祖克曼家的前院，弗恩跟在后面。艾弗里手里拿着一只活青蛙。

Fern had a crown of daisies in her hair. The children 
ran for the kitchen. 
弗恩头上戴着一顶雏菊花冠。孩子们跑向厨房。

“Just in time for a piece of blueberry pie,” said Mrs. 
Zuckerman. 
“正好可以吃一块蓝莓派，”祖克曼太太说。

“Look at my frog!” said Avery, placing the frog on 
the drainboard and holding out his hand for pie. 
“看我的青蛙！”艾弗里说着，把青蛙放在沥水板上，伸出手要吃馅饼。

“Take that thing out of here!” said Mrs. Zuckerman. 
“把那东西拿出去！”祖克曼太太说道。

“He’s hot,” said Fern. “He’s almost dead, that frog.” 
“它很热，”弗恩说。“那只青蛙快死了。”

“He is not,” said Avery. “He lets me scratch him be- 
tween the eyes.” The frog jumped and landed in Mrs. 
Zuckerman’s dishpan full of soapy water. 
“他才不是呢，”艾弗里说，“他让我挠他两眼之间。”青蛙跳了起来，落进了祖克曼太太装满肥皂水的洗碗盆里。

“You’re getting your pie on you,” said Fern. “Can 
I look for eggs in the henhouse, Aunt Edith?” 
“你身上沾到馅饼了，”弗恩说。“伊迪丝阿姨，我可以去鸡舍找鸡蛋吗？”

“Run outdoors, both of you! And don’t bother the 
hens!” 
“你们两个都到外面去跑！别去打扰母鸡！”

“It’s getting all over everything,” shouted Fern. “His 
pie is all over his front.” 
“到处都是！”费恩喊道，“他的馅饼都溅到他胸前了。”

“Come on, frog!” cried Avery. He scooped up his 
frog. The frog kicked, splashing soapy water onto the 
blueberry pie. 
“快点，青蛙！”艾弗里喊道。他一把抱起青蛙。青蛙踢了踢腿，把肥皂水溅到了蓝莓派上。

“Another crisis!” groaned Fern. 
“又出危机了！”费恩呻吟道。

“Let’s swing in the swing!” said Avery. 
“咱们去荡秋千吧！”艾弗里说道。

The children ran to the barn. 
孩子们跑向谷仓。

Mr. Zuckerman had the best swing in the county. It 
was a single long piece of heavy rope tied to the beam 
over the north doorway. At the bottom end of the rope 
was a fat knot to sit on. It was arranged so that you 
could swing without being pushed. You climbed a 
ladder to the hayloft. Then, holding the rope, you 
stood at the edge and looked down, and were scared 
and dizzy. Then you straddled the knot, so that it 
acted as a seat. Then you got up all your nerve, took 
a deep breath, and jumped. For a second you seemed 
to be falling to the barn floor far below, but then sud- 
denly the rope would begin to catch you, and you 
would sail through the barn door going a mile a minute, 
with the wind whistling in your eyes and ears and hair. 
Then you would zoom upward into the sky, and look 
up at the clouds, and the rope would twist and you 
would twist and turn with the rope. Then you would 
drop down, down, down out of the sky and come sail- 
ing back into the barn almost into the hayloft, then sail 
out again (not quite so far this time), then in again (not 
quite so high), then out again, then in again, then out, 
then in; and then you’d jump off and fall down and let 
somebody else try it. 
祖克曼先生家的秋千是全县最好的。那是一根长长的粗绳，系在北门上方的横梁上。绳子的末端打了个大结，可以坐。秋千的设计很巧妙，不用人推就能荡。你爬上梯子到干草阁楼，抓住绳子，站在边缘往下看，顿时感到害怕和头晕。然后你跨坐在绳结上，把它当成座位。接着你鼓起勇气，深吸一口气，纵身一跃。有一瞬间，你感觉自己要坠落到下面的谷仓地板上，但突然间，绳子开始拉住你，你便以惊人的速度飞过谷仓门，风呼啸着吹进你的眼睛、耳朵和头发里。然后你嗖地一下飞向天空，仰望云朵，绳子扭动着，你也随着绳子旋转翻腾。然后你会从天上往下掉，往下掉，往下掉，飞回谷仓，几乎飞到干草堆里，然后再次飞出去（这次没那么远），然后再次飞进去（这次没那么高），然后再次飞出去，再次飞进去，然后飞出去，然后飞进去；然后你会跳下来摔倒，让其他人也来试试。

Mothers for miles around worried about Zucker- 
man’s swing. They feared some child would fall off. 
But no child ever did. Children almost always hang 
onto things tighter than their parents think they will. 
方圆几英里的母亲们都担心祖克曼的秋千。她们害怕会有孩子掉下来。但从来没有孩子掉下来过。孩子们总是比父母想象中抓得更紧。

Avery put the frog in his pocket and climbed to the 
hayloft. “The last time I swang in this swing, I almost 
crashed into a barn swallow,” he yelled. 
艾弗里把青蛙放进口袋，爬上了干草棚。“上次我荡这个秋千的时候，差点撞到一只家燕，”他喊道。

“Take that frog out!” ordered Fern. 
Avery straddled the rope and jumped. He sailed out 
through the door, frog and all, and into the sky, frog 
and all. Then he sailed back into the barn. 
“把那只青蛙弄出去！”弗恩命令道。艾弗里跨过绳子，纵身一跃。他连同青蛙一起飞出了门，飞向天空，青蛙也跟着飞了出去。然后，他又飞回了谷仓。

“Your tongue is purple! ” screamed Fern. 
“你的舌头是紫色的！”弗恩尖叫道。

“So is yours!” cried Avery, sailing out again with the 
frog. 
“你的也是！”艾弗里喊道，然后带着青蛙再次扬帆出海。

“I have hay inside my dress! It itches!” called Fern. 
“我裙子里有干草！好痒！”弗恩喊道。

“Scratch it!” yelled Avery, as he sailed back. 
“取消！”艾弗里一边往回划一边喊道。

“It’s my turn,” said Fern. “Jump off!” 
“轮到我了，”弗恩说。“跳下去！”

“Fern’s got the itch!” sang Avery. 
“弗恩痒得不行了！”艾弗里唱道。

When he jumped off, he threw the swing up to his 
sister. She shut her eyes tight and jumped. She felt the 
dizzy drop, then the supporting lift of the swing. 
When she opened her eyes she was looking up into the 
blue sky and was about to fly back through the door. 
他跳下来后，把秋千扔给了妹妹。她紧紧闭上眼睛，纵身一跃。她感到一阵眩晕的下坠，然后又被秋千托起。当她睁开眼睛时，她正仰望着蔚蓝的天空，感觉自己就要飞出门外了。

They took turns for an hour. 
他们轮流做了一个小时。

When the children grew tired of swinging, they 
went down toward the pasture and picked wild rasp- 
berries and ate them. Their tongues turned from purple 
to red. Fern bit into a raspberry that had a bad-tasting 
bug inside it, and got discouraged. Avery found an 
empty candy box and put his frog in it. The frog 
seemed tired after his morning in the swing. The chil- 
dren walked slowly up toward the barn. They, too, 
were tired and hardly had energy enough to walk. 
孩子们荡秋千荡累了，就走到牧场边，摘野覆盆子吃。他们的舌头都从紫色变成了红色。费恩咬了一口覆盆子，里面竟然有只味道难吃的虫子，顿时泄了气。艾弗里找到一个空的糖果盒，把他的青蛙放了进去。青蛙似乎在秋千上玩了一上午，累坏了。孩子们慢慢地朝谷仓走去。他们也累了，几乎走不动路了。

“Let’s build a tree house,” suggested Avery. “I want 
to live in a tree, with my frog.” 
“咱们建个树屋吧，”艾弗里提议道。“我想和我的青蛙一起住在树上。”

“I’m going to visit Wilbur,” Fern announced. 
“我要去拜访威尔伯，”弗恩宣布道。

They climbed the fence into the lane and walked 
lazily toward the pigpen. Wilbur heard them coming 
and got up. 
它们翻过栅栏，走进小路，懒洋洋地朝猪圈走去。威尔伯听到它们走过来，便起身走了过来。

Avery noticed the spider web, and, coming closer, 
he saw Charlotte. 
艾弗里注意到了蜘蛛网，走近一看，发现是夏洛特。

“Hey, look at that big spider!” he said. “It’s tre- 
menjus.” 
“嘿，看那只大蜘蛛！”他说。“它是 tre-menjus。”

“Leave it alone!” commanded Fern. “You’ve got a 
frog — isn’t that enough?” 
“别管它！”弗恩命令道。“你已经抓到一只青蛙了——这还不够吗？”

“That’s a fine spider and I’m going to capture it,” 
said Avery. He took the cover off the candy box. Then 
he picked up a stick. “I’m going to knock that ol’ 
spider into this box,” he said. 
“这是一只不错的蜘蛛，我要把它抓住，”艾弗里说。他掀开糖果盒的盖子，然后拿起一根棍子。“我要把那只老蜘蛛敲进盒子里，”他说。

Wilbur’s heart almost stopped when he saw what 
was going on. This might be the end of Charlotte if 
the boy succeeded in catching her. 
威尔伯看到眼前的情景，心跳几乎停止了。如果那男孩真的抓住了夏洛特，她可能就没命了。

“You stop it, Avery!” cried Fern. 
“你住手，艾弗里！”费恩喊道。

Avery put one leg over the fence of the pigpen. He 
was just about to raise his stick to hit Charlotte when 
he lost his balance. He swayed and toppled and landed 
on the edge of Wilbur’s trough. The trough tipped up 
and then came down with a slap. The goose egg was 
right underneath. There was a dull explosion as the egg 
broke, and then a horrible smell. 
艾弗里一只脚跨过猪圈的围栏。他正要举起棍子打夏洛特，却失去平衡，摇摇晃晃地摔倒在威尔伯的食槽边上。食槽翘了起来，然后啪的一声落了下来。鹅蛋正好在食槽底下。蛋壳破裂，发出沉闷的爆炸声，随后一股恶臭扑面而来。

Fern screamed. Avery jumped to his feet. The air 
was filled with the terrible gases and smells from the 
rotten egg. Templeton, who had been resting in his 
home, scuttled away into the barn. 
费恩尖叫起来。艾弗里猛地跳了起来。空气中弥漫着臭鸡蛋散发出的可怕气体和气味。一直在屋里休息的坦普尔顿慌忙躲进了谷仓。

“Good night\" screamed Avery. “Good nightl 
What a stink! Let’s get out of here!” 
“晚安！”艾弗里尖叫道。“晚安！真臭！我们快离开这里！”

Fern was crying. She held her nose and ran toward 
the house. Avery ran after her, holding his nose. 
Charlotte felt greatly relieved to see him go. It had been 
a narrow escape. 
弗恩哭了起来。她捂着鼻子朝房子跑去。艾弗里也捂着鼻子追了上去。看到他走，夏洛特松了一口气。真是死里逃生。

Later on that morning, the animals came up from the 
pasture — the sheep, the lambs, the gander, the goose, 
and the seven goslings. There were many complaints 
about the awful smell, and Wilbur had to tell the story 
over and over again, of how the Arable boy had tried 
to capture Charlotte, and how the smell of the broken 
egg drove him away just in time. “It was that rotten 
goose egg that saved Charlotte’s life,” said Wilbur. 
那天上午晚些时候，羊群从牧场上走了过来——绵羊、羔羊、公鹅、母鹅，还有七只小鹅。大家都抱怨那股难闻的气味，威尔伯不得不一遍又一遍地讲述阿拉布尔家的男孩是如何试图抓住夏洛特的，以及那颗破蛋的气味是如何及时把他吓跑的。“正是那颗臭鹅蛋救了夏洛特的命，”威尔伯说道。

The goose was proud of her share in the adventure. 
这只鹅为自己在这次冒险中扮演的角色感到自豪。

“I’m delighted that the egg never hatched,” she gab- 
bled. 
“我很高兴那颗蛋没有孵化，”她喋喋不休地说。

Templeton, of course, was miserable over the loss 
of his beloved egg. But he couldn’t resist boasting. “It 
pays to save things,” he said in his surly voice. “A rat 
never knows when something is going to come in 
handy. I never throw anything away.” 
当然，坦普尔顿丢了心爱的蛋，难过极了。但他还是忍不住炫耀起来。“存东西是有好处的，”他用他那不耐烦的语气说道，“老鼠永远不知道什么时候会用得上什么东西。我从来不扔东西。”

“Well,” said one of the lambs, “this whole business 
is all well and good for Charlotte, but what about the 
rest of us? The smell is unbearable. Who wants to live 
in a barn that is perfumed with rotten egg?” 
“唉，”一只小羊羔说，“这对夏洛特来说当然很好，但我们其他人怎么办？这味道简直难以忍受。谁愿意住在弥漫着臭鸡蛋味的谷仓里呢？”

“Don’t worry, you’ll get used to it,” said Templeton. 
He sat up and pulled wisely at his long whiskers, then 
crept away to pay a visit to the dump. 
“别担心，你会习惯的，”坦普尔顿说。他坐起身，机智地扯了扯长长的胡须，然后悄悄溜走，去垃圾场逛逛。

When Lurvy showed up at lunchtime carrying a pail 
of food for Wilbur, he stopped short a few paces from 
the pigpen. He sniffed the air and made a face. 
午饭时分，卢维提着一桶饲料来给威尔伯喂猪，走到离猪圈几步远的地方，突然停了下来。他嗅了嗅空气，做了个鬼脸。

“What in thunder?” he said. Setting the pail down, 
he picked up the stick that Avery had dropped and 
pried the trough up. “Rats!” he said. “Fhew! I might 
a’ known a rat would make a nest under this trough. 
How I hate a rat! ” 
“这到底是怎么回事？”他说道。放下水桶，他捡起艾弗里掉落的棍子，撬开了水槽。“老鼠！”他喊道。“哎呀！我早该想到老鼠会在这个水槽下面筑巢。我真恨老鼠！”

And Lurvy dragged Wilbur’s trough across the 
yard and kicked some dirt into the rat’s nest, burying 
the broken egg and all Templeton’s other possessions. 
Then he picked up the pail. Wilbur stood in the trough, 
drooling with hunger. Lurvy poured. The slops ran 
creamily down around the pig’s eyes and ears. Wilbur 
grunted. He gulped and sucked, and sucked and 
gulped, making swishing and swooshing noises, anxious 
to get everything at once. It was a delicious meal — 
skim milk, wheat middlings, leftover pancakes, half a 
doughnut, the rind of a summer squash, two pieces of 
stale toast, a third of a gingersnap, a fish tail, one orange 
peel, several noodles from a noodle soup, the scum off 
a cup of cocoa, an ancient jelly roll, a strip of paper 
from the lining of the garbage pail, and a spoonful of 
raspberry jello. 
勒维拖着威尔伯的食槽穿过院子，踢了些泥土到老鼠窝里，把碎鸡蛋和坦普尔顿的其他东西都埋了起来。然后他拿起桶。威尔伯站在食槽里，饿得口水直流。勒维往里倒。泔水顺着猪的眼睛和耳朵缓缓流下来。威尔伯哼哼唧唧地，咕噜咕噜地吸吮着，发出咕噜咕噜的吸吮声，急切地想把所有东西都一口吞下。这是一顿​​美味的晚餐——脱脂牛奶、小麦麸皮、剩下的煎饼、半个甜甜圈、一个夏南瓜皮、两片隔夜吐司、三分之一块姜饼、一条鱼尾、一个橙皮、几根面条汤里的面条、一杯可可粉上的浮沫、一个陈年果冻卷、垃圾桶内衬上的一条纸条，以及一勺覆盆子果冻。

Wilbur ate heartily. He planned to leave half a 
noodle and a few drops of milk for Templeton. Then 
he remembered that the rat had been useful in saving 
Charlotte’s life, and that Charlotte was trying to save 
his life. So he left a whole noodle, instead of a half. 
威尔伯吃得很香。他原本打算给坦普尔顿留半根面条和几滴牛奶。后来他想起这只老鼠救了夏洛特的命，而夏洛特现在也在努力救他。于是他留下了一整根面条，而不是半根。

Now that the broken egg was buried, the air cleared 
and the barn smelled good again. The afternoon 
passed, and evening came. Shadows lengthened. The 
cool and kindly breath of evening entered through 
doors and windows. Astride her web, Charlotte sat 
moodily eating a horsefly and thinking about the 
future. After a while she bestirred herself. 
破碎的蛋被埋好后，空气清新了，谷仓里又弥漫着宜人的香气。午后时光流逝，夜幕降临。影子渐渐拉长。凉爽宜人的晚风透过门窗吹进来。夏洛特坐在蛛网上，闷闷不乐地吃着一只牛虻，思索着未来。过了一会儿，她动了动身子。

She descended to the center of the web and there 
she began to cut some of her lines. She worked slowly 
but steadily while the other creatures drowsed. None 
of the others, not even the goose, noticed that she was 
at work. Deep in his soft bed, Wilbur snoozed. Over 
in their favorite corner, the goslings whistled a night 
song. 
她降落到蛛网中央，开始割断蛛丝。她动作缓慢而稳健，其他生物都昏昏欲睡。没有一个生物注意到她在工作，就连那只鹅也没有。威尔伯在柔软的窝里打着盹儿。在它们最喜欢的角落里，小鹅们吹着夜曲。

Charlotte tore quite a section out of her web, leaving 
an open space in the middle. Then she started weaving 
something to take the place of the threads she had 
removed. When Templeton got back from the dump, 
around midnight, the spider was still at work. 
夏洛特撕掉了蛛网上很大一部分，中间留下了一个空隙。然后她开始织网，填补被撕掉的丝线留下的空缺。坦普尔顿大约在午夜时分从垃圾场回来时，蜘蛛还在织网。

THE NEXT day was foggy. Everything on 
the farm was dripping wet. The grass looked 
like a magic carpet. The asparagus patch 
looked like a silver forest. 
第二天雾气弥漫。农场里到处都湿漉漉的。草地像一张魔毯。芦笋地看起来像一片银色的森林。

On foggy mornings, Charlotte’s web was truly a 
thing of beauty. This morning each thin strand was 
decorated with dozens of tiny beads of water. The 
web glistened in the light and made a pattern of love- 
liness and mystery, like a delicate veil. Even Lurvy, 
who wasn’t particularly interested in beauty, noticed 
the web when he came with the pig’s breakfast. He 
noted how clearly it showed up and he noted how big 
and carefully built it was. And then he took another 
look and he saw something that made him set his pail 
down. There, in the center of the web, neatly woven 
in block letters, was a message. It said: 
在雾蒙蒙的清晨，夏洛的网真是美极了。今天早上，每一根细丝上都缀满了数十颗细小的水珠。网在阳光下闪闪发光，勾勒出爱意和神秘的图案，宛如一层轻柔的面纱。就连平时对美景不太感兴趣的卢维，在送猪食过来的时候，也注意到了这张网。他注意到网多么清晰，多么大，多么精巧。然后，他又仔细看了一眼，看到了一些东西，让他放下了手中的水桶。只见在网的中央，用工整的字母织着一条信息。上面写着：

SOME PIG!   真是头猪！

Lurvy felt weak. He brushed his hand across his eyes 
and stared harder at Charlotte’s web. 
卢维感到一阵虚弱。他用手抹了抹眼睛，更加专注地盯着夏洛特的蛛网。

“I’m seeing things,” he whispered. He dropped to 
his knees and uttered a short prayer. Then, forgetting 
all about Wilbur’s breakfast, he walked back to the 
house and called Mr. Zuckerman. 
“我好像看到了什么，”他低声说道。他跪倒在地，默默地做了个简短的祷告。然后，他完全忘记了威尔伯的早餐，走回屋里，给祖克曼先生打了电话。

“I think you’d better come down to the pigpen,” he 
said. 
“我觉得你最好到猪圈来一趟，”他说。

“What’s the trouble?” asked Mr. Zuckerman. “Any- 
thing wrong with the pig?” 
“出什么事了？”祖克曼先生问道，“猪有什么问题吗？”

“N-not exactly,” said Lurvy. “Come and see for 
yourself.” 
“不，也不完全是，”卢维说。“你自己来看看就知道了。”

The two men walked silently down to Wilbur’s 
yard. Lurvy pointed to the spider’s web. “Do you see 
what I see?” he asked. 
两人默默地走到威尔伯家的院子里。勒维指着蜘蛛网问道：“你看到我看到的了吗？”

Zuckerman stared at the writing on the web. Then 
he murmured the words “Some Pig.” Then he looked 
at Lurvy. Then they both began to tremble. Charlotte, 
sleepy after her night’s exertions, smiled as she watched. 
Wilbur came and stood directly under the web. 
祖克曼盯着蛛网上的字迹，喃喃自语道：“真是个猪。”然后他看向拉维，两人都开始颤抖起来。夏洛特因为昨晚的劳作而昏昏欲睡，她看着这一切，脸上露出了微笑。威尔伯走了过来，站在蛛网正下方。

“Some pig!” muttered Lurvy in a low voice. 
“真是个猪！”卢维低声嘟囔道。

“Some pig!” whispered Mr. Zuckerman. They 
stared and stared for a long time at Wilbur. Then they 
stared at Charlotte. 
“真是头猪！”祖克曼先生低声说道。他们盯着威尔伯看了很久，然后又盯着夏洛特看。

“You don’t suppose that that spider . . .” began 
xMr. Zuckerman — but he shook his head and didn’t 
finish the sentence. Instead, he walked solemnly back 
up to the house and spoke to his wife. “Edith, some- 
thing has happened,” he said, in a weak voice. He 
went into the living room and sat down, and Mrs. 
Zuckerman followed. 
“你不会认为那只蜘蛛……”祖克曼先生刚开口，就摇了摇头，没说完。他神情肃穆地走回屋里，对妻子说：“伊迪丝，出事了。”他声音虚弱地说。说完，他走进客厅坐下，祖克曼太太也跟了过来。

“I’ve got something to tell you, Edith,” he said. 
“You better sit down.” 
“伊迪丝，我有话要跟你说，”他说，“你最好坐下。”

Mrs. Zuckerman sank into a chair. She looked pale 
and frightened. 
祖克曼太太瘫坐在椅子上。她脸色苍白，神情惊恐。

“Edith,” he said, trying to keep his voice steady, 
“I think you had best be told that we have a very 
unusual pig.” 
“伊迪丝，”他努力保持声音平稳地说，“我想你最好知道，我们家有一头非常不寻常的猪。”

A look of complete bewilderment came over Mrs. 
Zuckerman’s face. “Homer Zuckerman, what in the 
world are you talking about?” she said. 
祖克曼太太脸上露出了完全困惑的表情。“霍默·祖克曼，你到底在说什么？”她问道。

“This is a very serious thing, Edith,” he replied. 
“Our pig is completely out of the ordinary.” 
“这可是件非常严重的事情，伊迪丝，”他回答说。“我们的猪完全不寻常。”

“What’s unusual about the pig?” asked Mrs. Zucker- 
man, who was beginning to recover from her scare. 
“这头猪有什么不寻常的地方吗？”祖克曼太太问道，她正从刚才的惊吓中缓过神来。

“Well, I don’t really know yet,” said Mr. Zucker- 
man. “But we have received a sign, Edith — a myste- 
rious sign. A miracle has happened on this farm. There 
is a large spider’s web in the doorway of the barn 
cellar, right over the pigpen, and when Lurvy went to 
feed the pig this morning, he noticed the web because 
it was foggy, and you know how a spider’s web looks 
very distinct in a fog. And right spang in the middle 
of the web there were the words ‘Some Pig.’ The words 
were woven right into the web. They were actually 
part of the web, Edith. I know, because I have been 
down there and seen them. It says, ‘Some Pig,’ just as 
clear as clear can be. There can be no mistake about it. 
A miracle has happened and a sign has occurred here 
on earth, right on our farm, and we have no ordinary 
“嗯，我还真不知道，”祖克曼先生说。“不过，伊迪丝，我们收到一个征兆——一个神秘的征兆。这农场里发生了一件奇迹。谷仓地窖门口，就在猪圈上方，有一张巨大的蜘蛛网。今天早上，卢维去喂猪的时候，因为雾气弥漫，他注意到了这张网。你知道，蜘蛛网在雾里看起来特别清晰。就在网的正中央，赫然写着‘好猪’几个字。这些字就织在网里。它们实际上是网的一部分，伊迪丝。我知道，因为我下去亲眼见过。上面写着‘好猪’，清清楚楚，一目了然。这绝对没错。奇迹发生了，征兆出现了，就在我们农场里，这可不是寻常的景象。”

“Well,” said Mrs. Zuckerman, “it seems to me 
you’re a little off. It seems to me we have no ordinary 
spider." 
“嗯，”祖克曼太太说，“我觉得你有点儿不对劲。我觉得我们这儿的蜘蛛可不是普通的蜘蛛。”

“Oh, no,” said Zuckerman. “It’s the pig that’s un- 
usual. It says so, right there in the middle of the web.” 
“哦，不，”祖克曼说。“不寻常的是那头猪。网页中间就写着呢。”

“Maybe so,” said Mrs. Zuckerman. “Just the same, 
I intend to have a look at that spider.” 
“也许是这样，”祖克曼太太说，“不过，我还是打算看看那只蜘蛛。”

“It’s just a common grey spider,” said Zuckerman. 
“它只是一只普通的灰蜘蛛，”祖克曼说。

They got up, and together they walked down to 
Wilbur’s yard. “You see, Edith? It’s just a common 
grey spider.” 
他们起身，一起走到威尔伯家的院子里。“你看，伊迪丝，那只是一只普通的灰蜘蛛。”

Wilbur was pleased to receive so much attention. 
Lurvy was still standing there, and Mr. and Mrs. 
Zuckerman, all three, stood for about an hour, reading 
the words on the web over and over, and watching 
Wilbur. 
威尔伯很高兴受到这么多关注。拉维仍然站在那里，祖克曼先生和太太，他们三个，站了大约一个小时，一遍又一遍地阅读着网上的文字，看着威尔伯。

Charlotte was delighted with the way her trick was 
working. She sat without moving a muscle, and lis- 
tened to the conversation of the people. When a small 
fly blundered into the web, just beyond the word 
“pig,” Charlotte dropped quickly down, rolled the fly 
up, and carried it out of the way. 
夏洛特对自己的计谋奏效感到非常满意。她一动不动地坐在那里，听着人们的谈话。这时，一只小苍蝇误入了蛛网，就在“猪”这个词的后面。夏洛特迅速俯身，把苍蝇卷起来，然后把它放到一边。

After a while the fog lifted. The web dried off and 
the words didn’t show up so plainly. The Zuckermans 
and Lurvy walked back to the house. Just before they 
left the pigpen, Mr. Zuckerman took one last look at 
Wilbur. 
过了一会儿，雾散了。蛛网干了，上面的字迹也不再那么清晰了。祖克曼一家和卢维往房子走去。就在他们离开猪圈之前，祖克曼先生最后看了一眼威尔伯。

“You know,” he said, in an important voice, “I’ve 
thought all along that that pig of ours was an extra good 
one. He’s a solid pig. That pig is as solid as they come. 
“你知道吗，”他用严肃的语气说道，“我一直觉得我们家的那头猪特别好。它是一头很棒的猪。那头猪真是棒极了。”

You notice how solid he is around the shoulders, 
Lurvy?” 
卢维，你注意到他肩膀有多结实了吗？

“Sure. Sure I do,” said Lurvy. “I’ve always noticed 
that pig. He’s quite a pig.” 
“当然，我当然注意到了，”卢维说。“我一直都注意到那头猪。它真是一头很特别的猪。”

“He’s long, and he’s smooth,” said Zuckerman. 
“That’s right,” agreed Lurvy. “He’s as smooth as 
they come. He’s some pig.” 
“他身形修长，毛发光滑，”祖克曼说道。“没错，”卢维赞同道，“他光滑得无与伦比。他真是一头好猪。”


When Mr. Zuckerman got back to the house, he 
took off his work clothes and put on his best suit. Then 
he got into his car and drove to the minister’s house. He 
stayed for an hour and explained to the minister that 
a miracle had happened on the farm. 
祖克曼先生回到家后，脱下工作服，换上他最好的西装。然后他开车去了牧师家。他在那里待了一个小时，向牧师讲述了农场里发生的一件奇迹。

“So far,” said Zuckerman, “only four people on 
earth know about this miracle — myself, my wife Edith, 
my hired man Lurvy, and you.” 
“到目前为止，”祖克曼说，“地球上只有四个人知道这个奇迹——我自己、我的妻子伊迪丝、我的雇工卢维，还有你。”

“Don’t tell anybody else,” said the minister. “We 
don’t know what it means yet, but perhaps if I give 
thought to it, I can explain it in my sermon next Sun- 
day. There can be no doubt that you have a most un- 
usual pig. I intend to speak about it in my sermon and 
point out the fact that this community has been visited 
with a wondrous animal. By the way, does the pig have 
a name?” 
“别告诉别人，”牧师说。“我们还不知道这意味着什么，不过也许我仔细想想，可以在下周日的布道中解释一下。毫无疑问，你们养了一头非常不寻常的猪。我打算在布道中谈到它，并指出这个社区迎来了一位奇特的动物。对了，这头猪有名字吗？”

“Why, yes,” said Mr. Zuckerman. “My little niece 
calls him Wilbur. She’s a rather queer child — full of 
notions. She raised the pig on a bottle and I bought 
him from her when he was a month old.” 
“没错，”祖克曼先生说。“我的小侄女叫它威尔伯。她是个相当古怪的孩子——满脑子都是奇思妙想。她用奶瓶把这头猪养大，我把它买下来的时候它才一个月大。”

He shook hands with the minister, and left. 
他与部长握了握手，然后离开了。


Secrets are hard to keep. Long before Sunday came, 
the news spread all over the county. Everybody knew 
that a sign had appeared in a spider’s web on the Zuck- 
erman place. Everybody knew that the Zuckermans 
had a wondrous pig. People came from miles around 
to look at Wilbur and to read the words on Charlotte’s 
web. The Zuckermans’ driveway was full of cars and 
trucks from morning till night — Fords and Chevvies 
and Buick roadmasters and GMC pickups and Plym- 
ouths and Studebakers and Packards and De Sotos 
with gyromatic transmissions and Oldsmobiles with 
rocket engines and Jeep station wagons and Pontiacs. 
The news of the wonderful pig spread clear up into 
the hills, and farmers came rattling down in buggies 
and buckboards, to stand hour after hour at Wilbur’s 
pen admiring the miraculous animal. All said they had 
never seen such a pig before in their lives. 
秘密难以保守。星期天还没到，消息就传遍了整个县。人人都知道，祖克曼家的蜘蛛网上出现了一个告示。人人都知道，祖克曼家养了一头神奇的猪。方圆几里的人都赶来，想看看威尔伯，看看夏洛特网上的字。从早到晚，祖克曼家的车道上停满了汽车和卡车——福特、雪佛兰、别克路霸、GMC 皮卡、普利茅斯、斯图德贝克、帕卡德、带自动变速器的德索托、带火箭发动机的奥兹莫比尔、吉普旅行车和庞蒂亚克。神奇猪的消息甚至传到了山上，农民们驾着马车和敞篷马车一路颠簸而来，在威尔伯的猪圈前驻足数小时，赞叹这头神奇的动物。所有人都说，他们这辈子都没见过这样的猪。

When Fern told her mother that Avery had tried to 
hit the Zuckermans’ spider with a stick, Mrs. Arable 
was so shocked that she sent Avery to bed without any 
supper, as punishment. 
当费恩告诉她妈妈艾弗里试图用棍子打祖克曼家的蜘蛛时，阿拉布尔太太非常震惊，于是罚艾弗里不吃晚饭就上床睡觉。

In the days that followed, Mr. Zuckerman was so 
busy entertaining visitors that he neglected his farm 
work. He wore his good clothes all the time now — got 
right into them when he got up in the morning. Mrs. 
Zuckerman prepared special meals for Wilbur. Lurvy 
shaved and got a haircut; and his principal farm duty 
was to feed the pig while people looked on. 
接下来的几天里，祖克曼先生忙着招待客人，荒废了农活。他现在总是穿着体面的衣服——每天早上起床后就立刻换上。祖克曼太太为威尔伯准备了特别的饭菜。卢维刮了胡子，理了发；他的主要农活就是在众人的注视下喂猪。

Mr. Zuckerman ordered Lurw to increase Wilbur’s 
feedings from three meals a day to four meals a day. 
The Zuckermans were so busy with visitors they forgot 
about other things on the farm. The blackberries got 
ripe, and Mrs. Zuckerman failed to put up any black- 
berry jam. The corn needed hoeing, and Lurvy didn’t 
find time to hoe it. 
祖克曼先生吩咐卢尔把威尔伯的喂食量从每天三顿增加到四顿。祖克曼一家忙着接待访客，把农场里的其他事情都忘了。黑莓熟了，祖克曼太太却没来得及做黑莓果酱。玉米需要锄地，卢尔也没时间锄。

On Sunday the church was full. The minister ex- 
plained the miracle. He said that the words on the 
spider’s web proved that human beings must always 
be on the watch for the coming of wonders. 
星期天，教堂里挤满了人。牧师解释了这个奇迹。他说，蜘蛛网上的文字证明，人类必须时刻警惕奇迹的到来。

All in all, the Zuckermans’ pigpen was the center 
of attraction. Fern was happy, for she felt that Char- 
lotte’s trick was working and that Wilbur’s life would 
be saved. But she found that the bam was not nearly 
as pleasant — too many people. She liked it better when 
she could be all alone with her friends the animals. 
总之，祖克曼家的猪圈成了众人瞩目的焦点。弗恩很高兴，因为她觉得夏洛特的计谋奏效了，威尔伯的命要保住了。但她发现，热闹的聚会远没有那么令人愉快——人太多了。她还是更喜欢和她的动物朋友们单独待在一起。

ONE EVENING, a few days after the writ- 
i ing had appeared in Charlotte’s web, the 
* spider called a meeting of all the animals 
in the barn cellar. 
一天晚上，在夏洛的网中出现文字几天后，蜘蛛召集了谷仓地窖里的所有动物开会。

“I shall begin by calling the roll. Wilbur?” 
“我先点名。威尔伯？”

“Here!” said the pig. 
“给你！”猪说道。

“Gander?”   “雄鹅？”

“Here, here, here!” said the gander. 
“喂，喂，喂！”雄鹅说道。

“You sound like three ganders,” muttered Char- 
lotte. “Why can’t you just say ‘here’? Why do you 
have to repeat everything?” 
“你说话像三只鹅，”夏洛特嘟囔道，“为什么你就不能直接说‘这里’？为什么什么都要重复一遍？”

“It’s my idio-idio-idiosyncrasy,” replied the gander. 
“Goose?” said Charlotte. 
“这是我的怪癖，”雄鹅回答道。“鹅？”夏洛特问道。

“Here, here, here!” said the goose. Charlotte glared 
at her. 
“喂，喂，喂！”鹅说道。夏洛特怒视着她。

“Goslings, one through seven?” 
“一到七岁的小鹅？”

“Bee-bee-bee!” “Bee-bee-bee!” “Bee-bee-bee!” 
“Bee-bee-bee!” “Bee-bee-bee!” “Bee-bee -bee! ” “Bee- 
bee-bee!” said the goslings. 
“哔哔哔！”“哔哔哔！”“哔哔哔！”“哔哔哔！”“哔哔哔！”“哔哔哔！”“哔哔哔！”小鹅们说。

“This is getting to be quite a meeting,” said Charlotte. 
“这会议越来越重要了，”夏洛特说。

“Anybody would think we had three ganders, three 
geese, and twenty-one goslings. Sheep?” 
“任何人都会以为我们有三只雄鹅、三只鹅和二十一只小鹅。羊？”

“He-aa-aa! ” answered the sheep all together. 
“咿——”绵羊们齐声回答。

“Lambs?”   “羔羊？”

“He-aa-aa!” answered the lambs all together. 
“哈——哈——哈！”小羊们齐声回答。

“Templeton?”   “坦普尔顿？”

No answer.   没有回应。

“Templeton?”   “坦普尔顿？”

No answer.   没有回应。

“Well, we are all here except the rat,” said Charlotte. 
“I guess we can proceed without him. Now, all of you 
must have noticed what’s been going on around here the 
last few days. The message I wrote in my web, praising 
Wilbur, has been received. The Zuckermans have fallen 
for it, and so has everybody else. Zuckerman thinks 
Wilbur is an unusual pig, and therefore he won’t want 
to kill him and eat him. I dare say my trick will work 
and Wilbur’s life can be saved. 
“好了，除了那只老鼠，大家都到齐了，”夏洛特说。“我想我们可以先不等它了。你们肯定都注意到这几天这里发生的事情了。我在网上写的赞扬威尔伯的信息已经收到了。祖克曼一家信以为真，其他人也都信以为真。祖克曼认为威尔伯是一头与众不同的猪，所以他不会想杀了它吃掉它。我敢说我的计策会奏效，威尔伯的命就能保住了。”

“Hurray!” cried everybody. 
“万岁！”大家齐声欢呼。

“Thank you very much,” said Charlotte. “Now I 
called this meeting in order to get suggestions. I need 
new ideas for the web. People are already getting sick 
of reading the words ‘Some Pig! ’ If anybody can think 
of another message, or remark. I’ll be glad to weave it 
into the web. Any suggestions for a new slogan?” 
“非常感谢，”夏洛特说。“我召开这次会议是为了征求大家的建议。我需要一些新的网站创意。人们已经厌倦了看到‘Some Pig!’这几个字了。如果有人能想到其他标语或评论，我很乐意把它融入到网站中。大家有什么新的标语建议吗？”

“How about ‘Pig Supreme’?” asked one of the lambs. 
“No good,” said Charlotte. “It sounds like a rich des- 
sert.” 
“‘至尊猪’怎么样？”一只小羊羔问道。“不行，”夏洛特说，“听起来像是一种油腻的甜点。”

How about ‘Terrific, terrific, terrific’?” asked the 
goose. 
“要不就说‘太棒了，太棒了，太棒了’吧？”鹅问道。

“Cut that down to one ‘terrific’ and it will do very 
nicely,” said Charlotte. “I think ‘terrific’ might impress 
Zuckerman.” 
“把所有词都精简成一个‘极好’就足够了，”夏洛特说。“我觉得‘极好’这个词或许能打动祖克曼。”

“But Charlotte,” said Wilbur, “I’m not terrific.” 
“但是夏洛特，”威尔伯说，“我并不出色。”

“That doesn’t make a particle of difference,” replied 
Charlotte. “Not a particle. People believe almost any- 
thing they see in print. Does anybody here know how 
to spell ‘terrific’?” 
“那根本无关紧要，”夏洛特回答说。“一点关系都没有。人们几乎什么都信，只要是印刷品上写的。这里有人知道‘terrific’怎么拼吗？”

“I think,” said the gander, “it’s tee double ee double 
rr double rr double eye double ff double eye double see 
see see see see.” 
“我想，”雄鹅说，“是 tee double ee double rr double rr double eye double ff double eye double see see see see see。”

“What kind of an acrobat do you think I am?” said 
Charlotte in disgust. “I would have to have St. Vitus’s 
Dance to weave a word like that into my web.” 
“你以为我是什么杂技演员？”夏洛特厌恶地说，“我得跳圣维特之舞才能把那样的词织进我的网里。”

“Sorry, sorry, sorry,” said the gander. 
“对不起，对不起，对不起，”雄鹅说道。

Then the oldest sheep spoke up. “I agree that there 
should be something new written in the web if Wilbur’s 
life is to be saved. And if Charlotte needs help in finding 
words, I think she can get it from our friend Templeton. 
The rat visits the dump regularly and has access to old 
magazines. He can tear out bits of advertisements and 
bring them up here to the barn cellar, so that Charlotte 
can have something to copy.” 
这时，年纪最大的那只羊开口说道：“我同意，如果想救威尔伯的命，就应该在蛛网上写些新东西。如果夏洛特需要帮忙找词，我想她可以找我们的朋友坦普尔顿帮忙。那只老鼠经常去垃圾场，能弄到一些旧杂志。他可以把广告撕下来，带到谷仓的地窖里，这样夏洛特就可以临摹了。”

“Good idea,” said Charlotte. “But I’m not sure Tem- 
pleton will be willing to help. You know how he is — 
always looking out for himself, never thinking of the 
other fellow.” 
“好主意，”夏洛特说，“但我不太确定坦普尔顿是否愿意帮忙。你知道他的为人——总是只顾自己，从不考虑别人。”

“I bet I can get him to help,” said the old sheep. “I’ll 
appeal to his baser instincts, of which he has plenty. 
Here he comes now. Everybody keep quiet while I put 
the matter up to him! ” 
“我敢打赌我能让他帮忙，”老羊说，“我要利用他那点卑劣的本能，他可真够本能的。他来了。大家都安静点，我要跟他谈谈！”

The rat entered the barn the way he always did — 
creeping along close to the wall. 
老鼠像往常一样爬进了谷仓——紧贴着墙壁爬行。

“What’s up?” he asked, seeing the animals assembled. 
“怎么了？”他看到动物们聚集在一起，问道。

“We’re holding a directors’ meeting,” replied the 
old sheep. 
“我们正在召开董事会议，”老绵羊回答道。

“Well, break it up!” said Templeton. “Meetings 
bore me.” And the rat began to climb a rope that hung 
against the wall. 
“好了，散了吧！”坦普尔顿说，“开会真无聊。”说完，老鼠开始爬上一根挂在墙上的绳子。

“Look,” said the old sheep, “next time you go to 
the dump, Templeton, bring back a clipping from a 
magazine. Charlotte needs new ideas so she can write 
messages in her web and save Wilbur’s life.” 
“听着，”老绵羊说，“坦普尔顿，下次你去垃圾场的时候，记得带一张杂志剪报回来。夏洛特需要新的灵感，才能在她的蛛网上写字，救威尔伯的命。”

“Let him die,” said the rat. “I should worry.” 
“让他去死吧，”老鼠说。“我才应该担心呢。”

“You’ll worry all right when next winter comes,” 
said the sheep. “You’ll worry all right on a zero morn- 
ing next January when Wilbur is dead and nobody 
comes down here with a nice pail of warm slops to pour 
into the trough. Wilbur’s leftover food is your chief 
source of supply, Templeton. You know that. Wilbur’s 
food is your food; therefore Wilbur’s destiny and your 
destiny are closely linked. If Wilbur is killed and his 
trough stands empty day after day, you’ll grow so thin 
we can look right through your stomach and see objects 
on the other side.” 
Templeton’s whiskers quivered. 
“等到明年冬天来临，你就该担心了，”绵羊说。“明年一月某个寒冷的清晨，威尔伯死了，没人会提着一桶热乎乎的泔水来喂你的食槽，到时候你就该担心了。坦普尔顿，威尔伯剩下的食物是你的主要食物来源。你知道的。威尔伯的食物就是你的食物；因此，威尔伯的命运和你的命运紧密相连。如果威尔伯死了，他的食槽日复一日地空着，你就会瘦得皮包骨，我们都能透过你的肚子看到另一边的东西了。”坦普尔顿的胡须颤抖起来。

“Maybe you’re right,” he said gruffly. “I’m making 
a trip to the dump tomorrow afternoon. I’ll bring back 
a magazine clipping if I can find one.” 
“也许你是对的，”他粗声粗气地说。“我明天下午要去趟垃圾场。如果能找到的话，我会带回一份杂志剪报。”

“Thanks,” said Charlotte. “The meeting is now ad- 
journed. I have a busy evening ahead of me. I’ve got 
to tear my web apart and write ‘Terrific.’ ” 
“谢谢，”夏洛特说。“会议结束了。我今晚还有很长的路要走。我得赶紧把网上的东西拆了，然后写《太棒了》。”

Wilbur blushed. “But I’m not terrific, Charlotte. 
I’m just about average for a pig.” 
威尔伯脸红了。“可是我并不出色，夏洛特。我只是头猪里比较普通的。”

“You’re terrific as far as Vm concerned,” replied 
Charlotte, sweetly, “and that’s what counts. You’re my 
best friend, and / think you’re sensational. Now stop 
arguing and go get some sleep! ” 
“就 Vm 而言，你棒极了，”夏洛特温柔地回答，“这才是最重要的。你是我最好的朋友，而且我觉得你非常出色。现在别争了，去睡觉吧！”

FAR INTO the night, while the other creatures 
slept, Charlotte worked on her web. First she 
ripped out a few of the orb lines near the cen- 
ter. She left the radial lines alone, as they were 
needed for support. As she worked, her eight legs 
were a great help to her. So were her teeth. She loved 
to weave and she was an expert at it. When she was 
finished ripping things out, her web looked something 
like this: 
A spider can produce several kinds of thread. She 
uses a dry, tough thread for foundation lines, and she 
uses a sticky thread for snare lines — the ones that 
catch and hold insects. Charlotte decided to use her 
dry thread for writing the new message. 
夜深人静，其他生物都已入睡，夏洛特仍在织网。她先扯掉了中心附近的几根圆线，保留了放射状的线，因为这些线是支撑网身的。织网时，她的八条腿帮了她很大的忙，牙齿也功不可没。她喜欢织网，而且技艺精湛。扯掉一些线后，她的网看起来大概是这样的：蜘蛛可以吐出几种不同的丝。她用干燥坚韧的丝织基础线，用黏性丝织陷阱线——用来捕捉和困住昆虫。夏洛特决定用她那干燥的丝来写新的信息。

“If I write the word ‘Terrific’ with sticky thread,” 
she thought, “every bug that comes along will get stuck 
in it and spoil the effect.” 
“如果我用粘线写‘太棒了’这个词，”她想，“任何飞过来的虫子都会粘在上面，破坏效果。”

“Now let’s see, the first letter is T.” 
“现在让我看看，第一个字母是 T。”

Charlotte climbed to a point at the top of the left 
hand side of the web. Swinging her spinnerets into posi- 
tion, she attached her thread and then dropped down. 
As she dropped, her spinning tubes went into action 
and she let out thread. At the bottom, she attached the 
thread. This formed the upright part of the letter T. 
Charlotte was not satisfied, however. She climbed up 
and made another attachment, right next to the first. 
Then she carried the line down, so that she had a 
double line instead of a single line. “It will show up 
better if I make the whole thing with double lines.” 
She climbed back up, moved over about an inch to 
the left, touched her spinnerets to the web, and then 
carried a line across to the right, forming the top of the 
T. She repeated this, making it double. Her eight legs 
were very busy helping. 
夏洛爬到蛛网左侧顶端。她摆好纺丝器，将线缠绕上去，然后缓缓落下。随着她下落，纺丝管开始运转，吐出丝线。到达底部后，她再次缠绕上丝线，形成字母“T”的竖直部分。然而，夏洛并不满意。她爬上去，在第一个缠绕点旁边又缠绕了一根丝线。然后，她将丝线向下延伸，使之变成双线而不是单线。“如果整个图案都用双线，效果会更好。”她爬回蛛网，向左移动约一英寸，将纺丝器触碰到蛛网，然后向右延伸一根丝线，形成字母“T”的顶部。她重复这个动作，使顶部变成双线。她的八条腿也忙着帮忙。

“Now for the E!” 
“现在轮到 E 了！”

Charlotte got so interested in her work, she began to 
talk to herself, as though to cheer herself on. If you 
had been sitting quietly in the barn cellar that evening, 
you would have heard something like this: 
夏洛特对她的工作非常投入，她开始自言自语，仿佛在给自己打气。如果你那天晚上安静地坐在谷仓的地窖里，你就会听到类似这样的话：

“Now for the R! Up we go! Attach! Descend! Pay 
out line! Whoa! Attach! Good! Up you go! Repeat! 
Attach! Descend! Pay out line. Whoa, girl! Steady 
now! Attach! Climb! Attach! Over to the right! Pay 
out line! Attach! Now right and down and swing that 
loop and around and around! Now in to the left! 
Attach! Climb! Repeat! O.K.! Easy, keep those lines 
together! Now, then, out and down for the leg of the 
R! Pay out line! Whoa! Attach! Ascend! Repeat! 
Good girl!” 
“现在开始画 R！向上！连接！下降！放线！哇！连接！好！向上！重复！连接！下降！放线。哇，姑娘！稳住！连接！向上！连接！向右！放线！连接！现在向右向下，摆动那个环，转啊转！现在向左！连接！向上！重复！好！别着急，保持这些线连在一起！现在，向外向下，画 R 的腿！放线！哇！连接！向上！重复！好姑娘！”

And so, talking to herself, the spider worked at her 
difficult task. When it was completed, she felt hungry. 
She ate a small bug that she had been saving. Then she 
slept. 
于是，蜘蛛一边自言自语，一边埋头苦干着她的艰巨任务。任务完成后，她感到饥饿。她吃掉了一只之前一直保存的小虫子。然后，她睡着了。

Next morning, Wilbur arose and stood beneath the 
web. He breathed the morning air into his lungs. Drops 
of dew, catching the sun, made the web stand out 
clearly. When Lurvy arrived with breakfast, there was 
the handsome pig, and over him, woven neatly in block 
letters, was the word TERRIFIC. Another miracle. 
第二天早上，威尔伯起身站在蛛网下。他深深地吸了一口清晨的空气。露珠在阳光下闪闪发光，让蛛网清晰可见。当卢维端着早餐来的时候，他看到那只英俊的小猪，而就在他上方，用工整的字母织出了“太棒了”两个字。又一个奇迹！

Lurvy rushed and called Mr. Zuckerman. Mr. Zuck- 
erman rushed and called Mrs. Zuckerman. Airs. Zuck- 
erman ran to the phone and called the Arables. The 
Arables climbed into their truck and hurried over. 
卢维赶紧给祖克曼先生打电话。祖克曼先生也赶紧给祖克曼太太打电话。祖克曼先生跑到电话旁，给阿拉布尔一家打电话。阿拉布尔一家跳上卡车，匆匆赶了过来。

Everybody stood at the pigpen and stared at the web 
and read the word, over and over, while Wilbur, who 
really felt terrific, stood quietly swelling out his chest 
and swinging his snout from side to side. 
大家都站在猪圈旁，盯着蜘蛛网，一遍又一遍地读着那个词，而威尔伯感觉棒极了，静静地站在那里，挺着胸膛，左右摇晃着鼻子。

“Terrific!” breathed Zuckerman, in joyful admira- 
tion. “Edith, you better phone the reporter on the 
Weekly Chronicle and tell him what has happened. He 
will want to know about this. He may want to bring a 
photographer. There isn’t a pig in the whole state that 
is as terrific as our pig.” 
“太棒了！”祖克曼欣喜若狂地喘息着说，“伊迪丝，你最好给《每周纪事报》的记者打个电话，告诉他发生了什么事。他肯定会想知道的。说不定还会带个摄影师来。全州没有哪头猪能比得上我们家的这头猪。”

The news spread. People who had journeyed to see 
Wilbur when he was “some pig” came back again to 
see him now that he was “terrific.” 
消息传开了。那些曾经去看望威尔伯，那时他还只是一头“不太起眼的猪”的人，现在又来看望他，因为他已经“棒极了”。

That afternoon, when Mr. Zuckerman went to milk 
the cows and clean out the tie-ups, he was still thinking 
about what a wondrous pig he owned. 
那天下午，当祖克曼先生去挤牛奶和清理拴牛栏时，他还在想着他拥有的那头多么奇妙的猪。

“Lurvy!” he called. “There is to be no more cow 
manure thrown down into that pigpen. I have a terrific 
pig. I want that pig to have clean, bright straw every 
day for his bedding. Understand?” 
“拉维！”他喊道，“不许再往猪圈里扔牛粪。我有一头很棒的猪。我希望它每天都能睡在干净明亮的稻草上。明白吗？”

“Yes, sir,” said Lurvy. 
“是的，先生，”卢维说道。

“Furthermore,” said Mr. Zuckerman, “I want you to 
start building a crate for Wilbur. I have decided to take 
the pig to the County Fair on September sixth. Make 
the crate large and paint it green with gold letters!” 
“What will the letters say?” asked Lurvy. 
“还有，”祖克曼先生说，“我要你开始给威尔伯做一个箱子。我决定9月6日带这头猪去参加县集市。把箱子做大一点，涂成绿色，用金色字母写上去！”“字母上要写什么呢？”勒维问。

“They should say Z uckerman's Famous Pig.” 
“他们应该叫它扎克曼的著名猪。”

Lurvy picked up a pitchfork and walked away to 
get some clean straw. Having such an important pig 
was going to mean plenty of extra work, he could see 
that. 
勒维拿起一把干草叉，走开去拿些干净的稻草。他明白，养这么重要的一头猪意味着要多干不少活。


Below the apple orchard, at the end of a path, was 
the dump where Mr. Zuckerman threw all sorts of 
trash and stuff that nobody wanted any more. Here, 
in a small clearing hidden by young alders and wild 
raspberry bushes, was an astonishing pile of old bottles 
and empty tin cans and dirty rags and bits of metal and 
broken bottles and broken hinges and broken springs 
and dead batteries and last month’s magazines and old 
discarded dishmops and tattered overalls and rusty 
spikes and leaky pails and forgotten stoppers and useless 
junk of all kinds, including a wrong-size crank for a 
broken ice-cream freezer. 
苹果园下方，一条小路的尽头，是祖克曼先生丢弃各种垃圾和无人问津之物的垃圾场。在这里，在一片被幼小的桤木和野生覆盆子丛遮蔽的小空地上，堆积着令人震惊的旧瓶子、空罐头、脏抹布、金属碎片、碎玻璃、断裂的铰链、断裂的弹簧、废旧电池、上个月的杂志、丢弃的旧拖把、破旧的工装裤、生锈的钉子、漏水的桶、被遗忘的塞子以及各种各样的无用杂物，甚至还有一个尺寸不对的冰淇淋机曲柄。

Templeton knew the dump and liked it. There were 
good hiding places there — excellent cover for a rat. 
And there was usually a tin can with food still clinging 
to the inside. 
坦普尔顿熟悉这个垃圾场，而且很喜欢那里。那里有很多绝佳的藏身之处——对老鼠来说简直是完美的掩护。而且通常还能找到一个罐头，里面还残留着一些食物残渣。

Templeton was down there now, rummaging 
around. When he returned to the barn, he carried in 
his mouth an advertisement he had torn from a crum- 
pled magazine. 
坦普尔顿此刻正在谷仓里翻找东西。当他回到谷仓时，嘴里叼着一张从皱巴巴的杂志上撕下来的广告。

“How’s this?” he asked, showing the ad to Charlotte. 
“这个怎么样？”他一边问，一边把广告拿给夏洛特看。

“It says ‘Crunchy.’ ‘Crunchy’ would be a good word 
to write in your web.” 
“上面写着‘酥脆’。‘酥脆’这个词很适合用在你的网站上。”

“Just the wrong idea,” replied Charlotte. “Couldn’t 
be worse. We don’t want Zuckerman to think Wilbur 
is crunchy. He might start thinking about crisp, 
crunchy bacon and tasty ham. That would put ideas 
into his head. We must advertise Wilbur’s noble qual- 
ities, not his tastiness. Go get another word, please, 
Templeton!” 
“这主意糟透了，”夏洛特回答说，“简直不能更糟了。我们可不想让祖克曼觉得威尔伯很脆。他可能会想到香脆的培根和美味的火腿。那样会让他胡思乱想。我们必须宣传威尔伯的高贵品质，而不是他的美味。坦普尔顿，你还是换个说法吧！”

The rat looked disgusted. But he sneaked away to 
the dump and was back in a while with a strip of cotton 
cloth. “How’s this?” he asked. “It’s a label off an old 
shirt.” 
老鼠一脸嫌弃。但他还是偷偷溜到垃圾场，过了一会儿又叼来一条棉布条。“这个怎么样？”他问。“这是件旧衬衫上的标签。”

Charlotte examined the label. It said PRE- 
SHRUNK. 
夏洛特仔细查看了标签。上面写着：预缩水。

“I’m sorry, Templeton,” she said, “but ‘Pre-shrunk’ 
is out of the question. We want Zuckerman to think 
Wilbur is nicely filled out, not all shrunk up. I’ll have 
to ask you to try again.” 
“抱歉，坦普尔顿，”她说，“‘缩水前’这个说法行不通。我们希望祖克曼觉得威尔伯身材匀称，而不是缩成一团。我得请你再想想办法。”

“What do you think I am, a messenger boy?” 
grumbled the rat. “I’m not going to spend all my time 
chasing down to the dump after advertising material.” 
“你以为我是什么，信差吗？”老鼠咕哝道，“我才不会整天追着垃圾场跑去捡广告材料呢。”

“Just once more — please!” said Charlotte. 
“就最后一次——求求你了！”夏洛特说。

“I’ll tell you what I’ll do,” said Templeton. “I know 
where there’s a package of soap flakes in the woodshed. 
It has writing on it. I’ll bring you a piece of the pack- 
age.” 
“我告诉你我打算怎么做，”坦普尔顿说，“我知道柴房里哪里有一包肥皂片，上面有字。我给你带一块来。”

He climbed the rope that hung on the wall and dis- 
appeared through a hole in the ceiling. When he came 
back he had a strip of blue-and-white cardboard in his 
teeth. 
他顺着墙上的绳子爬了上去，从天花板上的一个洞里消失了。当他回来时，嘴里叼着一条蓝白相间的硬纸板。

“There!” he said, triumphantly. “How’s that?” 
“瞧！”他得意地说。“怎么样？”

Charlotte read the words: “With New Radiant 
Action.” 
夏洛特读出了这句话：“以全新的光辉行动。”

“What does it mean?” asked Charlotte, who had 
never used any soap flakes in her life. 
“那是什么意思？”夏洛特问道，她这辈子都没用过肥皂片。

“How should I know?” said Templeton. “You 
asked for words and I brought them. I suppose the next 
thing you’ll want me to fetch is a dictionary.” 
“我怎么知道？”坦普尔顿说，“你要的是词语，我就带来了。我猜你接下来是不是要我去拿字典了？”

Together they studied the soap ad. “ With new 
radiant action,’ ” repeated Charlotte, slowly. “Wilbur!” 
she called. 
他们一起研究了那则肥皂广告。“焕发全新光彩，”夏洛特缓缓重复道。“威尔伯！”她喊道。

Wilbur, who was asleep in the straw, jumped up. 
睡在稻草堆里的威尔伯跳了起来。

“Run around!” commanded Charlotte. “I want to 
see you in action, to see if you are radiant.” 
“快跑！”夏洛特命令道，“我想看看你的表现，看看你是否容光焕发。”

Wilbur raced to the end of his yard. 
威尔伯飞奔到院子尽头。

“Now back again, faster!” said Charlotte. 
“快点，再回来！”夏洛特说道。

Wilbur galloped back. His skin shone. His tail had 
a fine, tight curl in it. 
威尔伯飞奔而来。他的皮肤闪闪发光。他的尾巴卷曲得又细又紧。

“Jump into the air!” cried Charlotte. 
“跳起来！”夏洛特喊道。

Wilbur jumped as high as he could. 
威尔伯跳得尽可能高。

“Keep your knees straight and touch the ground 
with your ears!” called Charlotte. 
“保持膝盖伸直，耳朵贴地！”夏洛特喊道。

Wilbur obeyed.   威尔伯服从了。

“Do a back flip with a half twist in it! ” cried Char- 
lotte. 
“来个后空翻加半转体！”夏洛特喊道。

Wilbur went over backwards, writhing and twisting 
as he went. 
威尔伯向后翻倒，一边翻滚一边扭动。

“O.K., Wilbur,” said Charlotte. “You can go back 
to sleep. O.K., Templeton, the soap ad will do, I guess. 
I’m not sure Wilbur’s action is exactly radiant, but it’s 
interesting.” 
“好了，威尔伯，”夏洛特说，“你可以回去睡觉了。好吧，坦普尔顿，我想肥皂广告应该可以吧。我不确定威尔伯的举动是否真的光彩照人，但挺有意思的。”

“Actually,” said Wilbur, “I feel radiant.” 
“实际上，”威尔伯说，“我感觉容光焕发。”

“Do you?” said Charlotte, looking at him with 
affection. “Well, you’re a good little pig, and radiant 
you shall be. I’m in this thing pretty deep now — I might 
as well go the limit.” 
“真的吗？”夏洛特看着他，满眼都是宠溺。“嗯，你真是个乖巧的小猪，以后一定会光彩照人。我已经陷得很深了——不如就做到极致吧。”

Tired from his romp, Wilbur lay down in the clean 
straw. He closed his eyes. The straw seemed scratchy 
— not as comfortable as the cow manure, which was 
always delightfully soft to lie in. So he pushed the 
straw to one side and stretched out in the manure. 
Wilbur sighed. It had been a busy day — his first day of 
being terrific. Dozens of people had visited his yard 
during the afternoon, and he had had to stand and pose, 
looking as terrific as he could. Now he was tired. Fern 
had arrived and seated herself quietly on her stool in 
the corner. 
威尔伯玩耍累了，便躺在干净的稻草上，闭上了眼睛。稻草似乎有点扎人——不如牛粪舒服，牛粪总是柔软得让人舒服。于是，他把稻草拨到一边，伸了个懒腰，躺在了牛粪里。威尔伯叹了口气。今天真是忙碌的一天——这是他第一天扮演“超级棒”的角色。下午有几十个人来参观他的院子，他不得不站着摆姿势，尽力让自己看起来“超级棒”。现在他累了。弗恩来了，安静地坐在角落里的凳子上。

“Tell me a story, Charlotte!” said Wilbur, as he lay 
waiting for sleep to come. “Tell me a story!” 
“夏洛特，给我讲个故事吧！”威尔伯躺着等着睡着，说道，“给我讲个故事吧！”

So Charlotte, although she, too, was tired, did what 
Wilbur wanted. 
所以，尽管夏洛特也很累，但她还是按照威尔伯的意愿做了。

“Once upon a time,” she began, “I had a beautiful 
cousin who managed to build her web across a small 
stream. One day a tiny fish leaped into the air and got 
tangled in the web. My cousin was very much sur- 
prised, of course. The fish was thrashing wildly. My 
cousin hardly dared tackle it. But she did. She swooped 
down and threw great masses of wrapping material 
around the fish and fought bravely to capture it.” 
“Did she succeed?” asked Wilbur. 
“很久很久以前，”她开始讲故事，“我有个漂亮的表妹，她在一条小溪上织了一张网。有一天，一条小鱼跃出水面，被网缠住了。我的表妹当然非常惊讶。那条鱼拼命挣扎。我的表妹几乎不敢去抓它。但她还是去了。她俯冲下来，用大量的蛛丝把鱼缠住，勇敢地与它搏斗。”“她成功了吗？”威尔伯问道。

“It was a never-to-be-forgotten battle,” said Char- 
lotte. “There was the fish, caught only by one fin, and 
its tail wildly thrashing and shining in the sun. There 
was the web, sagging dangerously under the weight of 
the fish.” 
“那是一场令人难忘的战斗，”夏洛特说。“那条鱼只钩住了一只鳍，尾巴在阳光下疯狂地摆动着。鱼网在鱼的重压下摇摇欲坠。”

“How much did the fish weigh?” asked Wilbur 
eagerly. 
“这条鱼有多重？”威尔伯急切地问道。

“I don’t know,” said Charlotte. “There was my 
cousin, slipping in, dodging out, beaten mercilessly 
over the head by the wildly thrashing fish, dancing in, 
dancing out, throwing her threads and fighting hard. 
First she threw a left around the tail. The fish lashed 
back. Then a left to the tail and a right to the mid- 
section. The fish lashed back. Then she dodged to one 
side and threw a right, and another right to the fin. 
Then a hard left to the head, while the web swayed 
and stretched.” 
“我不知道，”夏洛特说。“我的表妹在那儿，一会儿溜进去，一会儿躲出来，被那条疯狂挣扎的鱼无情地拍打着脑袋，一会儿又跳进去，一会儿又跳出来，一边挥舞着蛛丝，一边拼命反抗。她先是左手绕着鱼尾甩了一圈，鱼猛地反击。然后她又左手绕着鱼尾甩了一圈，右手绕着鱼身甩了一圈，鱼又猛地反击。接着她向一侧闪开，右手甩了一圈，又右手绕着鱼鳍甩了一圈。最后，她猛地左手绕着鱼头甩了一圈，蛛丝在她身下摇摆伸展。”

“Then what happened?” asked Wilbur. 
“然后发生了什么事？”威尔伯问道。

“Nothing,” said Charlotte. “The fish lost the fight. 
My cousin wrapped it up so tight it couldn’t budge.” 
“什么也没发生，”夏洛特说。“那条鱼没能挣脱。我表弟把它缠得太紧了，根本动弹不得。”

“Then what happened?” asked Wilbur. 
“然后发生了什么事？”威尔伯问道。

“Nothing,” said Charlotte. “My cousin kept the fish 
for a while, and then, when she got good and ready, 
she ate it.” 
“没什么，”夏洛特说。“我表妹把鱼留了一段时间，然后，等她想吃的时候，就把它吃了。”

“Tell me another story! ” begged Wilbur. 
“再给我讲个故事吧！”威尔伯恳求道。

So Charlotte told him about another cousin of hers 
who was an aeronaut. 
于是夏洛特告诉他，她还有一位表亲是名飞行员。

“What is an aeronaut?” asked Wilbur. 
“什么是航空员？”威尔伯问道。

“A balloonist,” said Charlotte. “My cousin used to 
stand on her head and let out enough thread to form a 
balloon. Then she’d let go and be lifted into the air and 
carried upward on the warm wind.” 
“一个热气球飞行员，”夏洛特说。“我表妹以前会倒立着，放出足够多的线来形成一个气球。然后她松开手，就会被风吹到空中，随着温暖的风向上飘。”

“Is that true?” asked Wilbur. “Or are you just 
making it up?” 
“那是真的吗？”威尔伯问，“还是你编造的？”

“It’s true,” replied Charlotte. “I have some very 
remarkable cousins. And now, Wilbur, it’s time you 
went to sleep.” 
“没错，”夏洛特回答说，“我有一些非常了不起的表兄弟姐妹。威尔伯，你该睡觉了。”

“Sing something!” begged Wilbur, closing his eyes. 
So Charlotte sang a lullaby, while crickets chirped 
in the grass and the barn grew dark. This was the song 
she sang. 
“唱首歌吧！”威尔伯闭上眼睛恳求道。于是夏洛特唱起了摇篮曲，蟋蟀在草地上鸣叫，谷仓渐渐暗了下来。这就是她唱的歌。

“Sleep, sleep, my love, my only, 
“睡吧，睡吧，我的爱人，我唯一的爱人，

Deep, deep, in the dung and the dark; 
深深地，在粪堆和黑暗中；

Be not afraid and be not lonely! 
不要害怕，也不要感到孤独！

This is the hour when frogs and thrushes 
Praise the world from the woods and the rushes. 
Rest from care, my one and only, 
此刻，蛙鸣和画眉在林间芦苇丛中赞美着世界。我的挚爱，请放下烦恼，安息吧。

Deep in the dung and the dark!” 
深入粪堆和黑暗之中！

But Wilbur was already asleep. When the song ended, 
Fern got up and went home. 
但威尔伯已经睡着了。歌曲结束后，弗恩起身回家了。


THE NEXT day was Saturday. Fern stood 
at the kitchen sink drying the breakfast 
dishes as her mother washed them. Mrs. 
Arable worked silently. She hoped Fern 
would go out and play with other children, instead of 
heading for the Zuckermans’ bam to sit and watch 
animals. 
第二天是星期六。费恩站在厨房水槽边擦干早餐的碗碟，她妈妈正在洗碗。阿拉布尔太太默默地干着活。她希望费恩能出去和其他孩子玩，而不是去祖克曼家的棚子里坐着看动物。

“Charlotte is the best storyteller I ever heard,” said 
Fern, poking her dish towel into a cereal bowl. 
“夏洛特是我听过的最会讲故事的人，”费恩一边说着，一边把抹布伸进麦片碗里。

“Fern,” said her mother sternly, “you must not in- 
vent things. You know spiders don’t tell stories. Spiders 
can’t talk.” 
“弗恩，”她母亲严厉地说，“你不准编故事。你知道蜘蛛不会讲故事。蜘蛛不会说话。”

“Charlotte can,” replied Fern. “She doesn’t talk 
very loud, but she talks.” 
“夏洛特会说话，”弗恩回答说。“她说话声音不大，但她确实会说话。”

“What kind of story did she tell?” asked Mrs. Arable. 
“Well,” began Fem, “she told us about a cousin of 
hers who caught a fish in her web. Don’t you think 
that’s fascinating?” 
“她讲了什么样的故事呢？”阿拉布尔太太问道。“嗯，”费姆开口说道，“她讲了她一个表亲用蛛网捕到一条鱼的故事。你不觉得这很精彩吗？”

“Fem, dear, how would a fish get in a spider’s web?” 
said Mrs. Arable. “You know it couldn’t happen. 
You’re making this up.” 
“费姆，亲爱的，鱼怎么会掉进蜘蛛网里呢？”阿拉布尔太太说。“你知道这不可能发生。你是在编故事。”

“Oh, it happened all right,” replied Fern. “Charlotte 
never fibs. This cousin of hers built a web across a 
stream. One day she was hanging around on the web 
and a tiny fish leaped into the air and got tangled in the 
web. The fish was caught by one fin, Mother; its tail 
was wildly thrashing and shining in the sun. Can’t you 
just see the web, sagging dangerously under the weight 
of the fish? Charlotte’s cousin kept slipping in, dodging 
out, and she was beaten mercilessly over the head by the 
wildly thrashing fish, dancing in, dancing out, throw- 
ing . . 
“哦，事情确实发生了，”弗恩回答说。“夏洛特从不撒谎。她的一个表妹在一条小溪上织了一张网。有一天，她正待在网上，一条小鱼跃出水面，结果被网缠住了。妈妈，鱼的一条鳍被网缠住了；它的尾巴在阳光下疯狂地摆动着，闪闪发光。你能想象那张网吗？在鱼的重量下，它摇摇欲坠，岌岌可危。夏洛特的表妹不停地钻进网里，又不停地躲出来，被那条疯狂摆动的鱼无情地拍打着脑袋，鱼儿一会儿钻进去，一会儿又跳出来，一会儿又把她甩来甩去……”

“Fern!” snapped her mother. “Stop it! Stop invent- 
ing these wild tales!” 
“弗恩！”她妈妈厉声说道，“住手！别再编造这些离谱的故事了！”

“I’m not inventing,” said Fern. “I’m just telling you 
the facts.” 
“我没有捏造事实，”费恩说，“我只是在陈述事实。”

“What finally happened?” asked her mother, whose 
curiosity began to get the better of her. 
“最后到底发生了什么事？”她母亲问道，好奇心开始战胜了理智。

“Charlotte’s cousin won. She wrapped the fish up, 
then she ate him when she got good and ready. Spiders 
have to eat, the same as the rest of us.” 
“夏洛特的表妹赢了。她把鱼包起来，等时机成熟后就把它吃了。蜘蛛也得吃饭，和我们其他人一样。”

“Yes, I suppose they do,” said Mrs. Arable, vaguely. 
“是的，我想他们会的，”阿拉布尔太太含糊地说。

“Charlotte has another cousin who is a balloonist. 
She stands on her head, lets out a lot of line, and is car- 
ried aloft on the wind. Mother, wouldn’t you simply 
love to do that?” 
“夏洛特还有一位表妹是热气球飞行员。她倒立着，放出很多绳子，然后被风带着升空。妈妈，您难道不想试试吗？”

“Yes, I would, come to think of it,” replied Mrs. 
Arable. “But Fern, darling, I wish you would play out- 
doors today instead of going to Uncle Homer’s barn. 
Find some of your playmates and do something nice 
outdoors. You’re spending too much time in that barn 
— it isn’t good for you to be alone so much.” 
“是的，仔细想想，我会的，”阿拉布尔太太回答说。“但是，亲爱的弗恩，我希望你今天能在户外玩耍，而不是去霍默叔叔的谷仓。找些小伙伴一起玩，在户外做些有趣的事情。你在谷仓里待的时间太长了——你一个人待这么久对你不好。”

“Alone?” said Fern. “Alone? My best friends are in 
the barn cellar. It is a very sociable place. Not at all 
lonely.” 
“一个人？”弗恩说。“一个人？我最好的朋友们都在谷仓的地窖里。那里是个很热闹的地方，一点也不孤单。”

Fern disappeared after a while, walking down the 
road toward Zuckermans’. Her mother dusted the 
sitting room. As she worked she kept thinking about 
Fern. It didn’t seem natural for a little girl to be so in- 
terested in animals. Finally Mrs. Arable made up her 
mind she would pay a call on old Doctor Dorian and 
ask his advice. She got in the car and drove to his office 
in the village. 
过了一会儿，弗恩消失了，沿着路朝祖克曼家走去。她母亲正在打扫客厅。她一边干活，一边想着弗恩。一个小女孩对动物如此感兴趣，似乎不太正常。最后，阿拉布尔太太决定去拜访一下老多里安医生，请教他一些建议。她上了车，开车去了他在村里的诊所。

Dr. Dorian had a thick beard. He was glad to see 
Mrs. Arable and gave her a comfortable chair. 
多里安医生留着浓密的胡须。他很高兴见到阿拉布尔太太，并给她搬来一把舒适的椅子。

“It's about Fern,” she explained. “Fern spends en- 
tirely too much time in the Zuckermans’ barn. It 
doesn’t seem normal. She sits on a milk stool in a corner 
of the barn cellar, near the pigpen, and watches animals, 
hour after hour. She just sits and listens.” 
“这事儿跟弗恩有关，”她解释说。“弗恩在祖克曼家的谷仓里待的时间太长了。这看起来不太正常。她坐在谷仓地窖角落里靠近猪圈的一张挤奶凳上，一坐就是几个小时，就那么坐着，听着。”

Dr. Dorian leaned back and closed his eyes. 
多里安医生向后靠去，闭上了眼睛。

“How enchanting!” he said. “It must be real nice 
and quiet down there. Homer has some sheep, hasn’t 
he?” 
“真迷人！”他说。“下面一定很安静祥和。荷马养了些羊，对吧？”

“Yes,” said Mrs. Arable. “But it all started with that 
pig we let Fern raise on a bottle. She calls him Wilbur. 
Homer bought the pig, and ever since it left our place 
Fern has been going to her uncle’s to be near it.” 
“是的，”阿拉布尔太太说，“但这一切都是从我们让弗恩用奶瓶养大的那头猪开始的。她叫它威尔伯。霍默买下了那头猪，自从它离开我们家后，弗恩就一直去她叔叔家，就为了能待在它身边。”

“I’ve been hearing things about that pig,” said Dr. 
Dorian, opening his eyes. “They say he’s quite a pig.” 
“我听说过那头猪的事，”多里安医生睁开眼睛说，“据说它可真是一头怪猪。”


“Have you heard about the words that appeared in 
the spider’s web?” asked Mrs. Arable nervously. 
“Yes,” replied the doctor. 
“你听说过蜘蛛网上出现的那些字吗？”阿拉布尔太太紧张地问道。“听说过，”医生回答道。

“Well, do you understand it?” asked Mrs. Arable. 
“Understand what?” 
“那么，你明白了吗？”阿拉布尔太太问道。“明白什么？”

“Do you understand how there could be any writing 
in a spider’s web?” 
“你明白蜘蛛网上怎么可能有文字吗？”

“Oh, no,” said Dr. Dorian. “I don’t understand it. 
But for that matter I don’t understand how a spider 
learned to spin a web in the first place. When the words 
appeared, everyone said they were a miracle. But no- 
body pointed out that the web itself is a miracle.” 
“What’s miraculous about a spider’s web?” said Mrs. 
“哦，不，”多里安博士说，“我不明白。其实，我也不明白蜘蛛最初是怎么学会织网的。当这些文字出现时，每个人都说这是个奇迹。但没有人指出，蜘蛛网本身就是个奇迹。”“蜘蛛网有什么奇迹可言？”太太问道。

Arable. “I don’t see why you say a web is a miracle — 
it’s just a web.” 
可耕作的。“我不明白你为什么说蛛网是奇迹——它只是一张蛛网而已。”

“Ever try to spin one?” asked Dr. Dorian. 
“你试过纺纱吗？”多里安博士问道。

Mrs. Arable shifted uneasily in her chair. “No,” she 
replied. “But I can crochet a doily and I can knit a 
sock.” 
阿拉布尔太太不安地在椅子上挪了挪身子。“不，”她回答说，“但我会钩织桌布，也会织袜子。”

“Sure,” said the doctor. “But somebody taught you, 
didn’t they?” 
“My mother taught me.” 
“当然，”医生说，“不过有人教过你，对吧？”“我妈妈教我的。”

“Well, who taught a spider? A young spider knows 
how to spin a web without any instructions from any- 
body. Don’t you regard that as a miracle?” 
“那么，是谁教蜘蛛织网的呢？一只幼蛛无需任何人的指导就会织网。你不觉得这是个奇迹吗？”

“I suppose so,” said Mrs. Arable. “I never looked at 
it that way before. Still, I don’t understand how those 
words got into the web. I don’t understand it, and I 
don’t like what I can’t understand.” 
“我想也是，”阿拉布尔太太说。“我以前从没这样想过。不过，我还是不明白那些话是怎么出现在网上的。我不明白，我不喜欢我无法理解的东西。”

“None of us do,” said Dr. Dorian, sighing. “I’m a 
doctor. Doctors are supposed to understand everything. 
But I don’t understand everything, and I don’t intend 
to let it worry me.” 
“我们谁都不懂，”多里安医生叹了口气说。“我是医生。医生应该什么都懂。但我并非什么都懂，我也不想为此烦恼。”

Mrs. Arable fidgeted. “Fern says the animals talk to 
each other. Dr. Dorian, do you believe animals talk?” 
“I never heard one say anything,” he replied. “But 
that proves nothing. It is quite possible that an animal 
has spoken civilly to me and that I didn’t catch the 
remark because I wasn’t paying attention. Children pay 
better attention than grownups. If Fern says that the 
animals in Zuckerman’s barn talk, I’m quite ready to 
believe her. Perhaps if people talked less, animals would 
talk more. People are incessant talkers — I can give you 
my word on that.” 
阿拉布尔太太坐立不安。“弗恩说动物们会互相交谈。多里安医生，您相信动物会说话吗？”“我从没听过它们说话，”他回答说。“但这并不能证明什么。很有可能某个动物曾经跟我说过话，只是我没注意，所以没听见。小孩子比大人更专注。如果弗恩说祖克曼家谷仓里的动物会说话，我完全相信她。也许如果人们少说话，动物们就会多说话。人类总是喋喋不休——我可以向你保证。”

“Well, I feel better about Fern,” said Mrs. Arable. 
“You don’t think I need worry about her?” 
“嗯，我感觉费恩的情况好多了，”阿拉布尔太太说。“你觉得我不用担心她吗？”

“Does she look well?” asked the doctor. 
“她看起来气色怎么样？”医生问道。

“Oh, yes.”   “哦是的。”

“Appetite good?”   “胃口好吗？”

“Oh, yes, she’s always hungry.” 
“哦，是的，她总是饿。”

“Sleep well at night?” 
“晚上睡得好吗？”

“Oh, yes.”   “哦是的。”

“Then don’t worry,” said the doctor. 
“那就不用担心了，”医生说。

“Do you think she’ll ever start thinking about some- 
thing besides pigs and sheep and geese and spiders?” 
“How old is Fern?” 
“你觉得她除了猪、羊、鹅和蜘蛛之外，还会开始想点别的吗？” “弗恩多大了？”

“She’s eight.”   “她八岁。”

“Well,” said Dr. Dorian, “I think she will always 
love animals. But I doubt that she spends her entire life 
in Homer Zuckerman’s barn cellar. How about boys — 
does she know any boys?” 
“嗯，”多里安医生说，“我想她会一直喜欢动物。但我怀疑她会不会一辈子都待在霍默·祖克曼的谷仓地窖里。至于男孩嘛——她认识男孩吗？”

“She knows Henry Fussy,” said Mrs. Arable 
brightly. 
“她认识亨利·弗西，”阿拉布尔太太兴高采烈地说。

Dr. Dorian closed his eyes again and went into deep 
thought. “Henry Fussy,” he mumbled. “Hmm. Re- 
markable. Well, I don’t think you have anything to 
worry about. Let Fern associate with her friends in the 
barn if she wants to. I would say, offhand, that spiders 
and pigs were fully as interesting as Henry Fussy. Yet 
I predict that the day will come when even Henry will 
drop some chance remark that catches Fern’s attention. 
It’s amazing how children change from year to year. 
How’s Avery?” he asked, opening his eyes wide. 
多里安医生再次闭上眼睛，陷入沉思。“亨利·福西，”他喃喃自语。“嗯，真……了不起。好吧，我想你没什么好担心的。如果弗恩想和她的朋友们在谷仓里玩耍，就让她去吧。我随口说，蜘蛛和猪跟亨利·福西一样有趣。但我预感，总有一天，就连亨利也会无意间说出什么话，引起弗恩的注意。孩子们每年变化都这么大，真是令人惊奇。艾弗里怎么样了？”他睁大眼睛问道。

“Oh, Avery,” chuckled Mrs. Arable. “Avery is al- 
ways fine. Of course, he gets into poison ivy and gets 
stung by wasps and bees and brings frogs and snakes 
home and breaks everything he lays his hands on. He’s 
fine.” 
“哦，艾弗里，”阿拉布尔太太笑着说。“艾弗里总是没事的。当然，他会踩到毒藤，被黄蜂和蜜蜂蜇，把青蛙和蛇带回家，还会弄坏他碰过的所有东西。但他没事。”

“Good!” said the doctor. 
“很好！”医生说。

Mrs. Arable said goodbye and thanked Dr. Dorian 
very much for his advice. She felt greatlv relieved. 
阿拉布尔夫人道别后，非常感谢多里安医生提供的建议。她感到如释重负。


THE CRICKETS sang in the grasses. They 
sang the song of summer’s ending, a sad, mo- 
notonous song. “Summer is over and gone,” 
they sang. “Over and gone, over and gone. 
Summer is dying, dying.” 
草丛里蟋蟀鸣叫。它们唱着夏日终结的歌，一首悲伤而单调的歌。“夏天结束了，”它们唱道。“结束了，结束了，夏天正在消逝，消逝。”

The crickets felt it was their duty to warn every- 
body that summertime cannot last forever. Even on the 
most beautiful days in the whole year — the days when 
summer is changing into fall — the crickets spread the 
rumor of sadness and change. 
蟋蟀们觉得有责任提醒所有人，夏天不会永远持续下去。即使在一年中最美好的日子里——夏末秋初之际——蟋蟀们也散播着悲伤和变化的讯息。

Everybody heard the song of the crickets. Avery 
and Fern Arable heard it as they walked the dusty road. 
They knew that school would soon begin again. The 
young geese heard it and knew that they would never 
be little goslings again. Charlotte heard it and knew 
that she hadn’t much time left. Mrs. Zuckerman, at 
work in the kitchen, heard the crickets, and a sadness 
came over her, too. “Another summer gone,” she 
sighed. Lurvy, at work building a crate for Wilbur, 
heard the song and knew it was time to dig potatoes. 
每个人都听到了蟋蟀的鸣叫。艾弗里和弗恩·阿拉布尔走在尘土飞扬的路上，听到了蟋蟀的鸣叫。他们知道学校很快就要开学了。小鹅们听到了蟋蟀的鸣叫，知道自己再也回不到小鹅的年纪了。夏洛特听到了蟋蟀的鸣叫，知道自己剩下的时间不多了。在厨房忙碌的祖克曼太太也听到了蟋蟀的鸣叫，心中也涌起一股悲伤。“又一个夏天过去了，”她叹了口气。正在为威尔伯制作木箱的拉维听到了蟋蟀的鸣叫，知道该挖土豆了。

“Summer is over and gone,” repeated the crickets. 
“How many nights till frost?” sang the crickets. 
“Good-bye, summer, good-bye, good-bye!” 
蟋蟀们重复着：“夏天结束了，转瞬即逝。”它们唱道：“还要过几个夜晚才会霜冻？”“再见了，夏天，再见了，再见了！”

The sheep heard the crickets, and they felt so uneasy 
they broke a hole in the pasture fence and wandered up 
into the field across the road. The gander discovered 
the hole and led his family through, and they walked 
to the orchard and ate the apples that were lying on the 
ground. A little maple tree in the swamp heard the 
cricket song and turned bright red with anxiety. 
羊群听见蟋蟀的叫声，感到十分不安，便在牧场围栏上撞了个洞，溜进了马路对面的田野。雄鹅发现了这个洞，带着家人走了进去，来到果园，吃掉了散落在地上的苹果。沼泽里的一棵小枫树听到蟋蟀的鸣叫，焦虑得叶子都变红了。

Wilbur was now the center of attraction on the farm. 
Good food and regular hours were showing results: 
Wilbur was a pig any man would be proud of. One day 
more than a hundred people came to stand at his yard 
and admire him. Charlotte had written the word RA- 
DIANT, and Wilbur really looked radiant as he stood 
in the golden sunlight. Ever since the spider had be- 
friended him, he had done his best to live up to his repu- 
tation. When Charlotte’s web said SOME PIG, Wilbur 
had tried hard to look like some pig. When Charlotte’s 
web said TERRIFIC, Wilbur had tried to look terrific. 
And now that the web said RADIANT, he did every- 
thing possible to make himself glow. 
威尔伯现在成了农场的焦点。丰盛的食物和规律的作息时间终于有了成效：威尔伯成了一头让所有人都引以为傲的猪。有一天，一百多人来到他的院子里，驻足欣赏他。夏洛特在蛛网上写下了“光彩照人”（RADIANT）这个词，威尔伯站在金色的阳光下，真的容光焕发。自从蜘蛛和他成了朋友，他就一直努力不辜负大家的期望。当夏洛特的蛛网上写着“好猪”（SOME PIG）时，威尔伯努力让自己看起来像一头好猪。当夏洛特的蛛网上写着“棒极了”（TERRIFIC）时，威尔伯努力让自己看起来棒极了。而现在蛛网上写着“光彩照人”（RADIANT），他更是想尽一切办法让自己闪闪发光。

It is not easy to look radiant, but Wilbur threw him- 
self into it with a will. He would turn his head slightly 
and blink his long eye-lashes. Then he would breathe 
deeply. And when his audience grew bored, he would 
spring into the air and do a back flip with a half twist. 
At this the crowd would yell and cheer. “How’s that 
for a pig?” Mr. Zuckerman would ask, well pleased 
with himself. “That pig is radiant.” 
要看起来容光焕发可不容易，但威尔伯却全身心地投入其中。他会微微侧过头，眨眨长长的睫毛，然后深呼吸。当观众开始觉得无聊时，他就会纵身一跃，来个后空翻加半转体。这时，人群会欢呼雀跃。“这头猪怎么样？”祖克曼先生得意洋洋地问道，“这头猪真是光彩照人！”

Some of Wilbur’s friends in the barn worried for 
fear all this attention would go to his head and make 
him stuck up. But it never did. Wilbur was modest; 
fame did not spoil him. He still worried some about the 
future, as he could hardly believe that a mere spider 
would be able to save his life. Sometimes at night he 
would have a bad dream. He would dream that men 
were coming to get him with knives and guns. But that 
was only a dream. In the daytime, Wilbur usually felt 
happy and confident. No pig ever had truer friends, 
and he realized that friendship is one of the most satis- 
fying things in the world. Even the song of the crickets 
did not make Wilbur too sad. He knew it was almost 
time for the County Fair, and he was looking forward 
to the trip. If he could distinguish himself at the Fair, 
and maybe win some prize money, he was sure Zucker- 
man would let him live. 
谷仓里威尔伯的一些朋友担心，大家的关注会让他骄傲自满。但这种情况并没有发生。威尔伯很谦逊，名气并没有让他变得傲慢。他仍然对未来有些担忧，因为他很难相信一只小小的蜘蛛竟然能救他的命。有时晚上他会做噩梦，梦见有人拿着刀枪来抓他。但那只是个梦。白天，威尔伯通常感到快乐和自信。没有哪只猪能拥有比他更真挚的朋友，他意识到友谊是世界上最令人满足的事情之一。就连蟋蟀的鸣叫声也无法让威尔伯感到悲伤。他知道县里的集市快要开始了，他很期待这次旅行。如果他能在集市上脱颖而出，也许还能赢得一些奖金，他相信祖克曼一定会放过他。

Charlotte had worries of her own, but she kept quiet 
about them. One morning Wilbur asked her about the 
Fair. 
夏洛特也有自己的烦恼，但她一直没说出来。一天早上，威尔伯问起她关于集市的事。

“You’re going 'with me, aren’t you, Charlotte?” he 
said. 
“你要跟我一起去，对吧，夏洛特？”他问道。

“Well, I don’t know,” replied Charlotce. “The Fair 
comes at a bad time for me. I shall find it inconvenient 
to leave home, even for a few days.” 
“嗯，我不知道，”夏洛特回答说。“集市开得真不是时候。即使只是离开家几天，我也会觉得很不方便。”

“Why?” asked Wilbur.   “为什么？”威尔伯问道。

“Oh, I just don’t feel like leaving my web. Too much 
going on around here.” 
“哦，我就是不想离开我的网络。这附近太乱了。”

“ Please come with me! ” begged Wilbur. “I need you, 
Charlotte. I can’t stand going to the Fair without you. 
You’ve just got to come.” 
“求求你跟我一起去吧！”威尔伯恳求道，“夏洛特，我需要你。没有你，我去不了集市。你一定要来。”

“No,” said Charlotte, “I believe I’d better stay home 
and see if I can’t get some work done.” 
“不，”夏洛特说，“我觉得我最好待在家里，看看能不能完成一些工作。”

“What kind of work?” asked Wilbur. 
“什么工作？”威尔伯问道。

“Egg laying. It’s time I made an egg sac and filled it 
with eggs.” 
“产卵了。是时候造个卵囊，把卵装进去了。”

“I didn’t know you could lay eggs,” said Wilbur in 
amazement. 
“我不知道你还会下蛋，”威尔伯惊讶地说。

“Oh, sure,” said the spider. “I’m versatile.” 
“哦，当然，”蜘蛛说，“我很全能。”

“What does ‘versatile’ mean — full of eggs?” asked 
Wilbur. 
“‘多才多艺’是什么意思——难道是满是鸡蛋吗？”威尔伯问道。

“Certainly not,” said Charlotte. “ ‘Versatile’ means 
I can turn with ease from one thing to another. It means 
I don’t have to limit my activities to spinning and trap- 
ping and stunts like that.” 
“当然不是，”夏洛特说。“‘多才多艺’意味着我可以轻松地从一件事转换到另一件事。这意味着我不必将我的活动局限于旋转、陷阱和类似的特技。”

“Why don’t you come with me to the Fair Grounds 
and lay your eggs there?” pleaded Wilbur. “It would 
be wonderful fun.” 
“你为什么不跟我去游乐场，在那里下蛋呢？”威尔伯恳求道，“那一定非常有趣。”

Charlotte gave her web a twitch and moodily 
watched it sway. “I’m afraid not,” she said. “You don’t 
know the first thing about egg laying, Wilbur. I can’t 
arrange my family duties to suit the management of the 
County Fair. When I get ready to lay eggs, I have to 
lay eggs, Fair or no Fair. However, I don’t want you to 
worry about it — you might lose weight. We’ll leave it 
this way: I’ll come to the Fair if I possibly can.” 
夏洛特抖了抖蛛网，闷闷不乐地看着它摇曳。“恐怕不行，”她说，“威尔伯，你对下蛋一窍不通。我没办法为了县集市的安排而调整家务。我什么时候该下蛋，就得下蛋，集市有没有都一样。不过，我不想让你为此担心——你会瘦的。就这么定了：如果可以的话，我会去参加集市的。”

“Oh, good! ” said Wilbur. “I knew you wouldn’t for- 
sake me just when I need you most.” 
“哦，太好了！”威尔伯说，“我就知道你不会在我最需要你的时候抛弃我。”

All that day Wilbur stayed inside, taking life easy in 
the straw. Charlotte rested and ate a grasshopper. She 
knew that she couldn’t help Wilbur much longer. In a 
few days she would have to drop everything and build 
the beautiful little sac that would hold her eggs. 
整整一天，威尔伯都待在屋里，舒舒服服地躺在稻草堆里。夏洛休息了一会儿，吃了一只蚱蜢。她知道自己帮不了威尔伯多久了。几天后，她就得放下一切，去建造那个美丽的小卵囊，用来孕育她的卵。

THE NIGHT before the County Fair, every- 
body went to bed early. Fern and Avery 
were in bed by eight. Avery lay dreaming 
that the Ferris wheel had stopped and that 
he was in the top car. Fern lay dreaming that she was 
getting sick in the swings. 
县集市前夜，大家都早早睡了。弗恩和艾弗里八点就上床睡觉了。艾弗里梦见摩天轮停了下来，而他正坐在顶层车厢里。弗恩则梦见自己在秋千上晕车了。

Lurvy was in bed by eight-thirty. He lay dreaming 
that he was throwing baseballs at a cloth cat and 
winning a genuine Navajo blanket. Mr. and Mrs. 
Zuckerman were in bed by nine. Mrs. Zuckerman lay 
dreaming about a deep freeze unit. Mr. Zuckerman lay 
dreaming about Wilbur. He dreamt that Wilbur had 
grown until he was one hundred and sixteen feet long 
and ninety-two feet high and that he had won all the 
prizes at the Fair and was covered with blue ribbons 
and even had a blue ribbon tied to the end of his tail. 
卢维八点半就上床睡觉了。他躺在床上做梦，梦见自己正用棒球砸一只布猫，赢得了一条真正的纳瓦霍毯子。祖克曼夫妇九点就上床睡觉了。祖克曼太太梦见一台冷冻柜。祖克曼先生则梦见威尔伯。他梦见威尔伯长到了一百一十六英尺长、九十二英尺高，赢得了博览会上的所有奖项，浑身挂满了蓝丝带，甚至连尾巴尖上也系着一条蓝丝带。

Down in the bam cellar, the animals, too, went to 
sleep early, all except Charlotte. Tomorrow would be 
Fair Day. Every creature planned to get up early to see 
Wilbur off on his great adventure. 
在地下室里，除了夏洛特之外，其他动物也都早早睡下了。明天就是集市日了。所有动物都计划早起，送威尔伯踏上他的伟大冒险之旅。

When morning came, everybody got up at daylight. 
The day was hot. Up the road at the Arables’ house, 
Fern lugged a pail of hot water to her room and took a 
sponge bath. Then she put on her prettiest dress be- 
cause she knew she would see boys at the Fair. Mrs. 
Arable scrubbed the back of Avery’s neck, and wet his 
hair, and parted it, and brushed it down hard till it 
stuck to the top of his head — all but about six hairs that 
stood straight up. Avery put on clean underwear, clean 
blue jeans, and a clean shirt. Mr. Arable dressed, ate 
breakfast, and then went out and polished his truck. 
He had offered to drive everybody to the Fair, includ- 
ing Wilbur. 
清晨，天刚亮，大家都起床了。天气很热。在阿拉布尔家，费恩提着一桶热水回到房间，用海绵擦了擦身子。然后她穿上自己最漂亮的裙子，因为她知道在集市上会遇到男孩子。阿拉布尔太太给艾弗里搓洗后颈，弄湿他的头发，然后分开，用力梳到头顶，几乎全都贴在头顶上——只有大约六根头发竖了起来。艾弗里穿上干净的内裤、干净的牛仔裤和一件干净的衬衫。阿拉布尔先生穿好衣服，吃了早饭，然后出去擦亮他的卡车。他主动提出开车送大家去集市，包括威尔伯。

Bright and early, Lurvy put clean straw in Wilbur’s 
crate and lifted it into the pigpen. The crate was green. 
In gold letters it said: 
Charlotte had her web looking fine for the occasion. 
Wilbur ate his breakfast slowly. He tried to look ra- 
diant without getting food in his ears. 
一大早，勒维就把干净的稻草放进威尔伯的笼子里，然后把它抬进猪圈。笼子是绿色的，上面用金字写着：夏洛的蛛网已经织好了，准备迎接这个特殊的日子。威尔伯慢慢地吃着早餐，努力让自己看起来容光焕发，同时又不让食物残渣进耳朵里。

In the kitchen, Mrs. Zuckerman suddenly made an 
announcement. 
在厨房里，祖克曼太太突然宣布了一件事。

“Homer,” she said to her husband, “I am going to 
give that pig a buttermilk bath.” 
“荷马，”她对丈夫说，“我要给那头猪洗个酪乳澡。”

“A what?” said Mr. Zuckerman. 
“什么？”祖克曼先生问道。

“A buttermilk bath. My grandmother used to bathe 
her pig with buttermilk when it got dirty — I just re- 
membered.” 
“酪乳浴。我奶奶以前会用酪乳给她脏了的猪洗澡——我刚想起来。”

“Wilbur’s not dirty,” said Mr. Zuckerman proudly. 
“威尔伯一点也不脏，”祖克曼先生自豪地说。

“He’s filthy behind the ears,” said Mrs. Zuckerman. 
“Every time Lurvy slops him, the food runs down 
around the ears. Then it dries and forms a crust. He also 
has a smudge on one side where he lays in the manure.” 
“他耳朵后面脏死了，”祖克曼太太说。“每次卢维喂他吃东西，食物都会顺着耳朵流下来。然后干了就结成硬壳。他身上还有一块污渍，那是他躺在粪便里留下的。”

“He lays in clean straw,” corrected Mr. Zuckerman. 
“他躺在干净的稻草上，”祖克曼先生纠正道。

“Well, he’s dirty, and he’s going to have a bath.” 
“他身上脏兮兮的，他要去洗个澡。”

Mr. Zuckerman sat down weakly and ate a dough- 
nut. His wife went to the woodshed. When she re- 
turned, she wore rubber boots and an old raincoat, and 
she carried a bucket of buttermilk and a small wooden 
paddle. 
祖克曼先生无力地坐下，吃了一块甜甜圈。他的妻子去了柴房。她回来时，穿着橡胶靴和一件旧雨衣，手里提着一桶酪乳和一个小木桨。

“Edith, you’re crazy,” mumbled Zuckerman. 
“伊迪丝，你疯了，”祖克曼嘟囔道。

But she paid no attention to him. Together they 
walked to the pigpen. Mrs. Zuckerman wasted no time. 
She climbed in with Wilbur and went to work. Dip- 
ping her paddle in the buttermilk, she rubbed him all 
over. The geese gathered around to see the fun, and so 
did the sheep and lambs. Even Templeton poked his 
head out cautiously, to watch Wilbur get a buttermilk 
bath. Charlotte got so interested, she lowered herself 
on a dragline so she could see better. Wilbur stood still 
and closed his eyes. He could feel the buttermilk trick- 
ling down his sides. He opened his mouth and some 
buttermilk ran in. It was delicious. He felt radiant and 
happy. When Mrs. Zuckerman got through and rubbed 
him dry, he was the cleanest, prettiest pig you ever saw. 
He was pure white, pink around the ears and snout, 
and smooth as silk. 
但她根本没理会他。他们一起走向猪圈。祖克曼太太动作麻利，爬进猪圈，开始给威尔伯洗澡。她把桨浸在酪乳里，给威尔伯全身搓洗。鹅群围过来看热闹，绵羊和小羊羔也来了。就连坦普尔顿也小心翼翼地探出头，看着威尔伯享受酪乳浴。夏洛特看得津津有味，甚至爬到一台牵引机上，以便看得更清楚。威尔伯站着不动，闭上了眼睛。他能感觉到酪乳顺着他的身体流下来。他张开嘴，一些酪乳流了进去。味道好极了。他感觉容光焕发，无比快乐。祖克曼太太给他搓干后，他成了你见过的最干净、最漂亮的猪。他全身雪白，耳朵和鼻子周围是粉红色的，皮肤光滑如丝。

The Zuckermans went up to change into their best 
clothes. Lurvy went to shave and put on his plaid shirt 
and his purple necktie. The animals were left to them- 
selves in the barn. 
祖克曼一家上楼去换上他们最好的衣服。勒维去刮了胡子，穿上他的格子衬衫和紫色领带。动物们被独自留在谷仓里。

The seven goslings paraded round and round their 
mother. 
七只小鹅围着它们的母亲转来转去。

“Please, please, please take us to the Fair!” begged a 
gosling. Then all seven began teasing to go. 
“求求你，求求你，带我们去集市吧！”一只小鹅哀求道。然后，七只小鹅都开始哄着要去。

“Please, please, please, please, please, please . . .” 
They made quite a racket. 
“求求你们，求求你们，求求你们，求求你们，求求你们……”他们吵吵嚷嚷的。

“Children!” snapped the goose. “We’re staying 
quietly-ietly-ietly at home. Only Wilbur-ilbur-ilbur is 
going to the Fair.” 
“孩子们！”鹅厉声说道，“我们安静地待在家里。只有威尔伯威尔伯威尔伯要去参加集市。”

Just then Charlotte interrupted. 
这时，夏洛特打断了她。

“I shall go, too,” she said, softly. “I have decided to 
go with Wilbur. He may need me. We can’t tell what 
may happen at the Fair Grounds. Somebody’s got to go 
along who knows how to write. And I think Temple- 
ton better come, too — I might need somebody to run 
errands and do general work.” 
“我也要去，”她轻声说道，“我决定和威尔伯一起去。他可能需要我。谁也说不准集市上会发生什么事。总得有人去，而且得有人会写字。我觉得坦普尔顿最好也一起来——我可能需要有人跑腿办事。”

“I’m staying right here,” grumbled the rat. “I haven’t 
the slightest interest in fairs.” 
“我就待在这儿，”老鼠咕哝道，“我对集市一点兴趣都没有。”

“That’s because you’ve never been to one,” remarked 
the old sheep. “A fair is a rat’s paradise. Everybody 
spills food at a fair. A rat can creep out late at night and 
have a feast. In the horse barn you will find oats that 
the trotters and pacers have spilled. In the trampled 
grass of the infield you will find old discarded lunch 
boxes containing the foul remains of peanut butter 
sandwiches, hard-boiled eggs, cracker crumbs, bits of 
doughnuts, and particles of cheese. In the hard-packed 
dirt of the midway, after the glaring lights are out and 
the people have gone home to bed, you will find a 
veritable treasure of popcorn fragments, frozen custard 
dribblings, candied apples abandoned by tired children, 
sugar fluff crystals, salted almonds, popsicles, partially 
gnawed ice cream cones, and the wooden sticks of lolly- 
pops. Everywhere is loot for a rat — in tents, in booths, 
in hay lofts — why, a fair has enough disgusting left- 
over food to satisfy a whole army of rats.” 
“那是因为你从来没去过，”老绵羊说道。 “集市简直是老鼠的天堂。集市上人人都会洒食物，老鼠可以趁着夜深人静溜出去大吃一顿。马厩里散落着马儿撒落的燕麦。内场被踩踏过的草地上，到处都是丢弃的旧午餐盒，里面装着花生酱三明治的残渣、煮鸡蛋、饼干屑、甜甜圈碎块和奶酪碎。游乐场的泥土地上，在灯光熄灭、人们都回家睡觉之后，你会发现一个真正的宝库：爆米花碎屑、冻奶油滴落物、疲惫的孩子们丢弃的糖苹果、糖霜晶体、咸杏仁、冰棍、啃了一半的冰淇淋蛋筒，还有棒棒糖的木棍。到处都是老鼠的宝藏——帐篷里、摊位里、干草堆里——为什么呢？”集市上剩下的恶心食物足够养活一大群老鼠了。

Templeton’s eyes were blazing. 
坦普尔顿双眼怒火中烧。

“Is this true?” he asked. “Is this appetizing yarn of 
yours true? I like high living, and what you say 
tempts me.” 
“这是真的吗？”他问道，“你讲的这些诱人的故事是真的吗？我喜欢奢华的生活，你说的这些话很吸引我。”

“It is true,” said the old sheep. “Go to the Fair, Tem- 
pleton. You will find that the conditions at a fair will 
surpass your wildest dreams. Buckets with sour mash 
sticking to them, tin cans containing particles of tuna 
fish, greasy paper bags stuffed with rotten . . .” 
“没错，”老羊说，“去集市看看吧，坦普尔顿。你会发现集市上的景象会超出你最疯狂的想象。桶上粘着酸麦芽浆，罐头里装着金枪鱼碎屑，油腻腻的纸袋里塞满了腐烂的……”

“That’s enough!” cried Templeton. “Don’t tell me 
any more. I’m going.” 
“够了！”坦普尔顿喊道，“别再跟我说了，我走了。”

“Good,” said Charlotte, winking at the old sheep. 
“好，”夏洛特说着，朝老羊眨了眨眼。

“Now then — there is no time to be lost. Wilbur will 
soon be put into the crate. Templeton and I must get 
in the crate right now and hide ourselves.” 
“好了，现在时间紧迫。威尔伯很快就要被装进箱子里了。我和坦普尔顿必须马上钻进箱子里藏起来。”

The rat didn’t waste a minute. He scampered over to 
the crate, crawled between the slats, and pulled straw 
up over him so he was hidden from sight. 
老鼠一刻也没耽搁。它飞快地跑到板条箱旁，钻进板条缝隙里，拉起稻草盖住自己，把自己藏了起来。

“All right,” said Charlotte, “I’m next.” She sailed 
into the air, let out a dragline, and dropped gently to 
the ground. Then she climbed the side of the crate and 
hid herself inside a knothole in the top board. 
“好了，”夏洛特说，“下一个就是我了。”她飞到空中，放出一根牵引绳，轻轻地落到地上。然后她爬上箱子侧面，把自己藏进顶板的一个节孔里。

The old sheep nodded. “What a cargo!” she said. 
“That sign ought to say ‘Zuckerman’s Famous Pig 
and Two Stowaways’.” 
老羊点了点头。“这可真是一车货物啊！”她说，“那牌子上应该写着‘祖克曼的名猪和两个偷渡客’。”

“Look out, the people are coming-oming-oming!” 
shouted the gander. “Cheese it, cheese it, cheese it!” 
The big truck with Mr. Arable at the wheel backed 
slowly down toward the barnyard. Lurvy and Mr. 
Zuckerman walked alongside. Fern and Avery were 
standing in the body of the truck hanging on to the 
sideboards. 
“小心！人来了！”雄鹅喊道。“快躲开！快躲开！快躲开！”阿拉布尔先生驾驶的大卡车缓缓倒车驶向谷仓。卢维和祖克曼先生走在卡车旁边。弗恩和艾弗里站在卡车车厢里，抓住两侧的挡板。

“Listen to me,” whispered the old sheep to Wilbur. 
“When they open the crate and try to put you in, 
struggle! Don’t go without a tussle. Pigs always re- 
sist when they are being loaded.” 
“听我说，”老羊低声对威尔伯说，“当他们打开笼子把你放进去的时候，要挣扎！别束手就擒。猪在被装上笼子的时候总是会反抗的。”

“If I struggle I’ll get dirty,” said Wilbur. 
“如果我挣扎，我会弄得浑身脏兮兮的，”威尔伯说。

“Never mind that — do as I say! Struggle! If you 
were to walk into the crate without resisting, Zucker- 
man might think you were bewitched. He’d be scared 
to go to the Fair.” 
“别管那些——照我说的做！挣扎！如果你不反抗就走进箱子里，祖克曼可能会以为你中了邪。他以后都不敢去集市了。”

Templeton poked his head up through the straw. 
“Struggle if you must,” said he, “but kindly remember 
that I’m hiding down here in this crate and I don’t want 
to be stepped on, or kicked in the face, or pummeled, 
or crushed in any way, or squashed, or buffeted about, 
or bruised, or lacerated, or scarred, or biffed. Just 
watch what you’re doing, Mr. Radiant, when they get 
shoving you in!” 
坦普尔顿从稻草堆里探出头来。“想挣扎就挣扎吧，”他说，“但请记住，我躲在这个箱子里，我可不想被人踩踏、踢脸、殴打、碾压、挤压、推搡、弄伤、割伤、留下疤痕或打得鼻青脸肿。拉迪安特先生，当他们把你推进来的时候，你可得小心点！”

“Be quiet, Templeton!” said the sheep. “Pull in your 
head — they’re coming. Look radiant, Wilbur! Lay low, 
Charlotte! Talk it up, geese!” 
“安静点，坦普尔顿！”绵羊们说。“收起你的头——它们来了。威尔伯，容光焕发！夏洛特，低调点！鹅们，大声喊叫！”

The truck backed slowly to the pigpen and stopped. 
Mr. Arable cut the motor, got out, walked around to 
the rear, and lowered the tailgate. The geese cheered. 
Mrs. Arable got out of the truck. Fern and Avery 
jumped to the ground. Mrs. Zuckerman came walking 
down from the house. Everybody lined up at the fence 
and stood for a moment admiring Wilbur and the beau- 
tiful green crate. Nobody realized that the crate al- 
ready contained a rat and a spider. 
卡车缓缓倒车到猪圈边停了下来。阿拉布尔先生关掉引擎，下了车，绕到车后，放下后挡板。鹅群欢呼起来。阿拉布尔太太也下了车。弗恩和艾弗里跳到地上。祖克曼太太从房子里走了过来。大家在栅栏边排成一排，站了一会儿，欣赏着威尔伯和那漂亮的绿色木箱。谁也没有注意到，木箱里已经装着一只老鼠和一只蜘蛛了。

“That’s some pig!” said Mrs. Arable. 
“那头猪真够大的！”阿拉布尔太太说道。

“He’s terrific,” said Lurvy. 
“他太棒了，”卢维说。

“He’s very radiant,” said Fern, remembering the day 
he was born. 
“他容光焕发，”费恩回忆起他出生的那天说道。

“Well,” said Mrs. Zuckerman, “he’s clean, anyway. 
The buttermilk certainly helped.” 
“嗯，”祖克曼太太说，“反正他现在很干净。酪乳肯定起了作用。”

Mr. Arable studied Wilbur carefully. “Yes, he’s a 
wonderful pig,” he said. “It’s hard to believe that he 
was the runt of the litter. You’ll get some extra good 
ham and bacon, Homer, when it comes time to kill 
that pig.” 
阿拉布尔先生仔细打量了威尔伯。“是啊，他真是一头好猪，”他说。“真不敢相信他是同窝里最小的。霍默，等到宰杀这头猪的时候，你就能得到一些特别好的火腿和培根了。”

Wilbur heard these words and his heart almost 
stopped. “I think I’m going to faint,” he whispered to 
the old sheep, who was watching. 
威尔伯听到这话，心脏几乎停止了跳动。“我觉得我要晕过去了，”他低声对正在看着他的老羊说。

“Kneel down!” whispered the old sheep. “Let the 
blood rush to your head!” 
“跪下！”老羊低声说道，“让血液涌上你的头！”

Wilbur sank to his knees, all radiance gone. His eyes 
closed. 
威尔伯跪倒在地，所有的光彩都消失了。他闭上了眼睛。

“Look!” screamed Fern. “He’s fading away!” 
“Hey, watch me!” yelled Avery, crawling on all 
fours into the crate. “I’m a pig! I’m a pig!” 
“看！”弗恩尖叫道，“他快消失了！”“嘿，看我！”艾弗里喊道，四肢着地爬进了箱子里。“我是头猪！我是头猪！”

Avery’s foot touched Templeton under the straw. 
“What a mess!” thought the rat. “What fantastic crea- 
tures boys are! Why did I let myself in for this?” 
艾弗里的脚碰到了稻草下的坦普尔顿。“真是糟透了！”老鼠心想。“男孩子真是奇妙的生物！我为什么要让自己陷入这种境地？”

The geese saw Avery in the crate and cheered. 
“Avery, you get out of that crate this instant!” com- 
manded his mother. “What do you think you are?” 
“I’m a pig!” cried Avery, tossing handfuls of straw 
into the air. “Oink, oink, oink!” 
鹅群看到艾弗里被关在笼子里，欢呼起来。“艾弗里，你立刻从笼子里出来！”他妈妈命令道。“你以为你是什么？”“我是猪！”艾弗里喊道，一边把一把把稻草抛向空中。“哼哼哼！”

“The truck is rolling away, Papa,” said Fern. 
“爸爸，卡车开走了，”费恩说。

The truck, with no one at the wheel, had started to 
roll downhill. Mr. Arable dashed to the driver’s seat 
and pulled on the emergency brake. The truck stopped. 
The geese cheered. Charlotte crouched and made her- 
self as small as possible in the knothole, so Avery 
wouldn’t see her. 
卡车无人驾驶，开始顺着山坡滑行。阿拉布尔先生冲到驾驶座，拉下紧急制动。卡车停了下来。鹅群欢呼起来。夏洛特蜷缩在树洞里，尽量把自己藏得小一些，以免被艾弗里发现。

“Come out at once!” cried Mrs. Arable. Avery 
crawled out of the crate on hands and knees, making 
faces at Wilbur. Wilbur fainted away. 
“快出来！”阿拉布尔太太喊道。艾弗里手脚并用地从板条箱里爬出来，冲着威尔伯做鬼脸。威尔伯吓得晕了过去。

“The pig has passed out,” said Mrs. Zuckerman. 
“Throw water on him!” 
“猪晕过去了，”祖克曼太太说。“快往它身上泼水！”

“Throw buttermilk!” suggested Avery. 
“扔酪乳！”艾弗里建议道。

The geese cheered.   鹅群欢呼起来。

Lurvy ran for a pail of water. Fern climbed into the 
pen and knelt by Wilbur’s side. 
勒维跑去拿了一桶水。弗恩爬进围栏，跪在威尔伯身边。

“It’s sunstroke,” said Zuckerman. “The heat is too 
much for him.” 
“他是中暑了，”祖克曼说。“天气太热了，他受不了。”

“Maybe he’s dead,” said Avery. 
“他可能已经死了，”艾弗里说。

“Come out of that pigpen immediately !” cried Mrs. 
Arable. Avery obeyed his mother and climbed into the 
back of the truck so he could see better. Lurvy returned 
with cold water and dashed it on Wilbur. 
“快从猪圈里出来！”阿拉布尔太太喊道。艾弗里听从母亲的话，爬到卡车后车厢里，这样他就能看得更清楚些。卢维拿着冷水回来，泼在威尔伯身上。

“Throw some on me!” cried Avery. “I’m hot, too.” 
“给我也泼点儿！”艾弗里喊道，“我也很热。”

“Oh, keep quiet!” hollered Fern. “Keep qui- ut!” 
Her eyes were brimming with tears. 
“哦，安静点！”弗恩喊道。“安静——”她的眼里噙满了泪水。

Wilbur, feeling the cold water, came to. He rose 
slowly to his feet, while the geese cheered. 
威尔伯感觉到冰冷的水，醒了过来。他缓缓站起身来，鹅群欢呼起来。



“He’s up!” said Mr. Arable. “I guess there’s nothing 
wrong with him.” 
“他醒了！”阿拉布尔先生说，“看来他没什么事。”

“I’m hungry,” said Avery. “I want a candied apple.” 
“Wilbur’s all right now,” said Fern. “We can start. 
I want to take a ride in the Ferris wheel.” 
“我饿了，”艾弗里说，“我想吃糖苹果。”“威尔伯现在没事了，”弗恩说，“我们可以开始了。我想坐摩天轮。”

Mr. Zuckerman and Mr. Arable and Lurvy grabbed 
the pig and pushed him headfirst toward the crate. Wil- 
bur began to struggle. The harder the men pushed, the 
harder he held back. Avery jumped down and joined 
the men. Wilbur kicked and thrashed and grunted. 
“Nothing wrong with this pig,” said Mr. Zuckerman 
cheerfully, pressing his knee against Wilbur’s behind. 
“All together, now, boys! Shove!” 
祖克曼先生、阿拉布尔先生和卢维抓住那头猪，把它头朝下推向箱子。威尔伯开始挣扎。男人们推得越用力，它就越抗拒。艾弗里跳下来加入他们。威尔伯又踢又闹，哼哼唧唧的。“这头猪没毛病，”祖克曼先生兴高采烈地说，用膝盖顶着威尔伯的屁股。“伙计们，一起上！推！”

With a final heave they jammed him into the crate. 
The geese cheered. Lurvy nailed some boards across 
the end, so Wilbur couldn’t back out. Then, using all 
their strength, the men picked up the crate and heaved 
it aboard the truck. They did not know that under the 
straw was a rat, and inside a knothole was a big grey 
spider. They saw only a pig. 
他们使劲一推，把威尔伯塞进了板条箱。鹅群欢呼起来。勒维在板条箱一端钉了几块木板，防止威尔伯出来。然后，男人们使出浑身解数，抬起板条箱，把它抬到卡车上。他们不知道稻草底下藏着一只老鼠，树洞里还有一只大灰蜘蛛。他们看到的只是一头猪。

“Everybody in! ” called Mr. Arable. He started the 
motor. The ladies climbed in beside him. Mr. Zucker- 
man and Lurvy and Fern and Avery rode in back, hang- 
ing onto the sideboards. The truck began to move 
ahead. The geese cheered. The children answered their 
cheer, and away went everybody to the Fair. 
“都上车！”阿拉布尔先生喊道。他发动了引擎。女士们爬到他旁边的车厢里。祖克曼先生、卢维、弗恩和艾弗里坐在后车厢，抓住两侧的踏板。卡车开始向前行驶。鹅群欢呼雀跃。孩子们也跟着欢呼，大家就这样出发去参加集市了。

WHEN they pulled into the Fair 
Grounds, they could hear music and 
see the Ferris wheel turning in the 
sky. They could smell the dust of the 
race track where the sprinkling cart had moistened it; 
and they could smell hamburgers frying and see bal- 
loons aloft. They could hear sheep blatting in their 
pens. An enormous voice over the loudspeaker said: 
“Attention, please! Will the owner of a Pontiac car, 
license number H-2439, please move your car away 
from the fireworks shed!” 
当他们驶入博览会场地时，便能听到音乐，看到摩天轮在空中旋转。他们能闻到洒水车洒过赛道后留下的尘土味；他们能闻到汉堡包煎炸的香味，看到气球在空中飘荡。他们能听到羊圈里羊咩咩叫。这时，喇叭里传来一个洪亮的声音：“请注意！请车牌号为 H-2439 的庞蒂亚克车主将车从烟花棚附近移开！”

“Can I have some money?” asked Fern. 
“我能要点钱吗？”弗恩问道。

“Can I, too?” asked Avery. 
“我也可以吗？”艾弗里问道。

“I’m going to win a doll by spinning a wheel and it 
will stop at the right number,” said Fern. 
“我要转动轮盘赢一个玩偶，轮盘会停在正确的数字上，”费恩说。

“I’m going to steer a jet plane and make it bump into 
another one.” 
“我要驾驶一架喷气式飞机，让它撞上另一架飞机。”

“Can I have a balloon?” asked Fern. 
“我可以要个气球吗？”弗恩问道。

“Can I have a frozen custard and a cheeseburger and 
some raspberry soda pop?” asked Avery. 
“You children be quiet till we get the pig unloaded,” 
said Mrs. Arable. 
“我可以要一份冻奶酪、一个芝士汉堡和一些覆盆子汽水吗？”艾弗里问道。“孩子们，在我们把猪卸下来之前，你们都安静点。”阿拉布尔太太说道。

“Let’s let the children go off by themselves,” sug- 
gested Mr. Arable. “The Fair only comes once a year.” 
Mr. Arable gave Fern two quarters and two dimes. He 
gave Avery five dimes and four nickels. “Now run 
along!” he said. “And remember, the money has to last 
all day. Don’t spend it all the first few minutes. And be 
back here at the truck at noontime so we can all have 
lunch together. And don’t eat a lot of stuff that’s going 
to make you sick to your stomachs.” 
“咱们让孩子们自己去吧，”阿拉布尔先生建议道，“集市一年只有一次。”他给了弗恩两个25美分硬币和两个10美分硬币，又给了艾弗里五个10美分硬币和四个5美分硬币。“快去吧！”他说，“记住，这些钱要够用一整天。别一开始就花光。中午12点之前回到卡车这里，我们一起吃午饭。还有，别吃太多会让你胃不舒服的东西。”

“And if you go in those swings,” said Mrs. Arable, 
“you hang on tight! You hang on very tight. Hear me? ” 
“如果你要去荡秋千，”阿拉布尔太太说，“一定要抓紧！一定要抓紧。听见了吗？”

“And don’t get lost! ” said Mrs. Zuckerman. 
“别迷路了！”祖克曼太太说。

“And don’t get dirty! ” 
“别弄脏自己！”

“Don’t get overheated!” said their mother. 
“别太热了！”他们的母亲说道。

“Watch out for pickpockets!” cautioned their fa- 
ther. 
“小心扒手！”他们的父亲提醒道。

“And don’t cross the race track when the horses are 
coming!” cried Mrs. Zuckerman. 
“马匹奔跑时，千万不要横穿赛道！”祖克曼太太喊道。

The children grabbed each other by the hand and 
danced off in the direction of the merry-go-round, 
toward the wonderful music and the wonderful adven- 
ture and the wonderful excitement, into the wonderful 
midway where there would be no parents to guard them 
and guide them, and where they could be happy and 
free and do as they pleased. Mrs. Arable stood quietly 
and watched them go. Then she sighed. Then she blew 
her nose. 
孩子们手拉着手，朝着旋转木马的方向跳去，朝着美妙的音乐、奇妙的冒险和令人兴奋的景象，朝着那奇妙的游乐场奔去，那里没有父母的监护和引导，他们可以快乐自由地做任何想做的事。阿拉布尔太太静静地站在那里，看着他们离去。然后她叹了口气。然后她擤了擤鼻子。

“Do you really think it’s all right?” she asked. 
“Well, they’ve got to grow up some time,” said Mr. 
Arable. “And a fair is a good place to start, I guess.” 
“你真的觉得这样可以吗？”她问。“嗯，他们总有一天要长大，”阿拉布尔先生说。“我想，参加集市是个不错的开始吧。”


While Wilbur was being unloaded and taken out of 
his crate and into his new pigpen, crowds gathered to 
watch. They stared at the sign ZUCKERMAN’S FA- 
MOUS PIG. Wilbur stared back and tried to look 
extra good. He was pleased with his new home. The 
pen was grassy, and it was shaded from the sun by a 
shed roof. 
当威尔伯被从笼子里卸下来，放进新的猪圈时，人群聚集起来观看。他们盯着“祖克曼著名猪”的牌子。威尔伯也回望过去，努力让自己看起来格外帅气。他对自己的新家很满意。猪圈里长满了草，还有棚顶遮挡阳光。

Charlotte, watching her chance, scrambled out of 
the crate and climbed a post to the under side of the 
roof. Nobody noticed her. 
夏洛特伺机而动，从板条箱里爬出来，顺着一根柱子爬到屋顶下面。没有人注意到她。

Templeton, not wishing to come out in broad day- 
light, stayed quietly under the straw at the bottom of 
the crate. Mr. Zuckerman poured some skim milk into 
Wilbur’s trough, pitched clean straw into his pen, and 
then he and Mrs. Zuckerman and the Arables walked 
away toward the cattle barn to look at purebred cows 
and to see the sights. Mr. Zuckerman particularly 
wanted to look at tractors. Mrs. Zuckerman wanted to 
see a deep freeze. Lurvy wandered off by himself, hop- 
ing to meet friends and have some fun on the midway. 
As soon as the people were gone, Charlotte spoke to 
Wilbur. 
坦普尔顿不愿在光天化日之下出来，便静静地躲在板条箱底部的稻草下。祖克曼先生往威尔伯的食槽里倒了些脱脂牛奶，又往他的牛栏里铺了些干净的稻草，然后他和祖克曼太太以及阿拉布尔一家就朝牛棚走去，去看纯种奶牛和其他景点。祖克曼先生特别想看看拖拉机，祖克曼太太则想看看冰柜。卢维独自溜达，希望能找到朋友，在游乐场玩得开心。人们一走，夏洛特就和威尔伯说话了。

“It’s a good thing you can’t see what I see,” she said. 
“幸好你看不到我看到的东西，”她说。

“What do you see?” asked Wilbur. 
“你看到了什么？”威尔伯问道。

“There’s a pig in the next pen and he’s enormous. 
I’m afraid he’s much bigger than you are.” 
“隔壁猪圈里有一头猪，它体型巨大。恐怕它比你大得多。”

“Maybe he’s older than I am, and has had more time 
to grow,” suggested Wilbur. Tears began to come to 
his eyes. 
“也许他比我年纪大，成长的时间也更长，”威尔伯说道。说着，他的眼眶开始泛红。

“I’ll drop down and have a closer look,” Charlotte 
said. Then she crawled along a beam till she was di- 
rectly over the next pen. She let herself down on a drag- 
line until she hung in the air just in front of the big 
pig’s snout. 
“我下去看看，”夏洛特说。然后她沿着横梁爬过去，一直爬到隔壁猪圈的正上方。她顺着一根牵引绳滑下去，悬在半空中，正好在大猪鼻子的正前方。

“May I have your name?” she asked, politely. 
她礼貌地问道：“请问您贵姓？”

The pig stared at her. “No name,” he said in a big, 
hearty voice. “Just call me Uncle.” 
那头猪盯着她。“没名字，”它用洪亮洪亮的声音说，“叫我叔叔就好。”

“Very well, Uncle,” replied Charlotte. “What is the 
date of your birth? Are you a spring pig?” 
“好的，叔叔，”夏洛特回答说。“您的生日是什么时候？您是春猪吗？”

“Sure I’m a spring pig,” replied Uncle. “What did 
you think I was, a spring chicken? Haw, haw — that’s a 
good one, eh, Sister?” 
“我当然是只小猪了，”叔叔回答说。“你以为我是什么，小鸡吗？哈哈——这话说得好啊，是吧，姐姐？”

“Mildly funny,” said Charlotte. “I’ve heard funnier 
ones, though. Glad to have met you, and now I must be 
going.” 
“还算有趣，”夏洛特说，“不过我听过更有趣的。很高兴认识你，我现在得走了。”

She ascended slowly and returned to Wilbur’s pen. 
她缓缓上升，回到了威尔伯的围栏里。

“He claims he’s a spring pig,” reported Charlotte, 
“and perhaps he is. One thing is certain, he has a most 
unattractive personality. He is too familiar, too noisy, 
and he cracks weak jokes. Also, he’s not anywhere near 
as clean as you are, nor as pleasant. I took quite a dis- 
like to him in our brief interview. He’s going to be a 
hard pig to beat, though, Wilbur, on account of his size 
and weight. But with me helping you, it can be done.” 
“他自称是只小猪，”夏洛特报告说，“也许真是吧。但有一点可以肯定，他的性格实在令人厌恶。他太黏人，太吵闹，而且讲的笑话也很无聊。另外，他远不如你干净，也不如你讨人喜欢。我们短暂的交谈中，我就对他印象很差。不过，威尔伯，他体型庞大，体重惊人，想打败他可不容易。但有我帮忙，一定能行。”

“When are you going to spin a web?” asked Wilbur. 
“你什么时候织网啊？”威尔伯问道。

“This afternoon, late, if I’m not too tired,” said 
Charlotte. “The least thing tires me these days. I don’t 
seem to have the energy I once had. My age, I guess.” 
Wilbur looked at his friend. She looked rather swol- 
len and she seemed listless. 
“今天下午晚些时候，如果我不太累的话，”夏洛特说。“最近我什么都觉得累。我好像没有以前那么精力了。我想，这大概是因为年纪大了吧。”威尔伯看了看他的朋友。她看起来有些浮肿，而且似乎无精打采。

“I’m awfully sorry to hear that you’re feeling poorly, 
Charlotte,” he said. “Perhaps if you spin a web and 
catch a couple of flies you’ll feel better.” 
“听到你身体不舒服，我感到非常难过，夏洛特，”他说。“也许你织张网捉几只苍蝇，就会感觉好些了。”

“Perhaps,” she said, wearily. “But I feel like the end 
of a long day.” Clinging upside down to the ceiling, she 
settled down for a nap, leaving Wilbur very much wor- 
ried. 
“也许吧，”她疲惫地说，“但我感觉一天已经结束了。”她倒挂在天花板上，准备打个盹，留下威尔伯非常担心。

All morning people wandered past Wilbur’s pen. 
Dozens and dozens of strangers stopped to stare at him 
and to admire his silky white coat, his curly tail, his kind 
and radiant expression. Then they would move on to 
the next pen where the bigger pig lay. Wilbur heard 
several people make favorable remarks about Uncle’s 
great size. He couldn’t help overhearing these remarks, 
and he couldn’t help worrying. “And now, with Char- 
lotte not feeling well . . .” he thought. “Oh, dear! ” 
整个上午，人们络绎不绝地从威尔伯的猪圈前走过。几十个陌生人停下来，盯着他看，欣赏他丝滑的白色皮毛、卷曲的尾巴和友善灿烂的表情。然后，他们又会走向下一个猪圈，那里躺着一头体型更大的猪。威尔伯听到好几个人夸赞叔叔的体型。他忍不住偷听，心里也开始担心起来。“现在，夏洛特又不舒服……”他想，“哎呀！”

All morning Templeton slept quietly under the 
straw. The day grew fiercely hot. At noon the Zucker- 
mans and the Arables returned to the pigpen. Then, a 
few minutes later, Fern and Avery showed up. Fern 
had a monkey doll in her arms and was eating Cracker- 
jack. Avery had a balloon tied to his ear and was chew- 
ing a candied apple. The children were hot and dirty. 
整个上午，坦普尔顿都在稻草下安静地睡着了。天气越来越热。中午时分，祖克曼一家和阿拉布尔一家回到了猪圈。几分钟后，弗恩和艾弗里出现了。弗恩抱着一个猴子玩偶，正在吃爆米花。艾弗里耳朵上系着一个气球，嘴里嚼着一个糖苹果。孩子们又热又脏。

“Isn’t it hot?” said Mrs. Zuckerman. 
“真热啊！”祖克曼太太说。

“It’s terribly hot,” said Mrs. Arable, fanning herself 
with an advertisement of a deep freeze. 
“太热了，”阿拉布尔太太一边说着，一边用一张冷冻柜广告牌给自己扇风。

One by one they climbed into the truck and opened 
lunch boxes. The sun beat down on everything. No- 
body seemed hungry. 
他们一个接一个地爬上卡车，打开午餐盒。烈日当空，阳光炙烤着一切。似乎没有人感到饥饿。

“When are the judges going to decide about Wil- 
bur?” asked Mrs. Zuckerman. 
“法官们什么时候才能对威尔伯的案子做出裁决？”祖克曼太太问道。

“Not till tomorrow,” said Mr. Zuckerman. 
“要等到明天，”祖克曼先生说。

Lurvy appeared, carrying an Indian blanket that he 
had won. 
卢维出现了，手里拿着他赢得的一条印第安毯子。

“That’s just what we need,” said Avery. “A blanket.” 
“我们正需要这个，”艾弗里说，“一条毯子。”

“Of course it is,” replied Lurvy. And he spread the 
blanket across the sideboards of the truck so that it was 
like a little tent. The children sat in the shade, under the 
blanket, and felt better. 
“当然了，”卢维回答道。他把毯子铺在卡车的两侧板上，像搭了个小帐篷一样。孩子们坐在毯子下的阴凉处，感觉舒服多了。

After lunch, they stretched out and fell asleep. 
午饭后，他们伸展身体睡着了。

IN THE cool of the evening, when shadows dark- 
ened the Fair Grounds, Templeton crept from the 
crate and looked around. Wilbur lay asleep in the 
straw. Charlotte was building a web. Templeton’s 
keen nose detected many fine smells in the air. The rat 
was hungry and thirsty. He decided to go exploring. 
Without saying anything to anybody, he started off. 
傍晚时分，夜幕降临，集市广场渐渐暗了下来。坦普尔顿从板条箱里爬出来，环顾四周。威尔伯正躺在稻草堆里酣睡，夏洛正在织网。坦普尔顿灵敏的鼻子闻到了空气中各种美妙的气味。这只老鼠又饿又渴，决定出去探险一番。他一声不吭地出发了。

“Bring me back a word!” Charlotte called after him. 
“I shall be writing tonight for the last time.” 
“给我带个词回来！”夏洛特在他身后喊道，“我今晚要最后一次写作了。”

The rat mumbled something to himself and disap- 
peared into the shadows. He did not like being treated 
like a messenger boy. 
老鼠咕哝了几句，消失在阴影里。他不喜欢被当成信使使唤。

After the heat of the day, the evening came as a wel- 
come relief to all. The Ferris wheel was lighted now. It 
went round and round in the sky and seemed twice as 
high as by day. There were lights on the midway, and 
you could hear the crackle of the gambling machines 
and the music of the merry-go-round and the voice of 
the man in the beano booth calling numbers. 
白天的酷热过后，夜晚的到来对每个人来说都是一种令人欣喜的解脱。摩天轮灯火通明，在空中缓缓旋转，仿佛比白天高了两倍。游乐场里灯火辉煌，赌博机的咔哒声、旋转木马的音乐声，还有彩票亭里报号的声音，都清晰可闻。

The children felt refreshed after their nap. Fern met 
her friend Henry Fussy, and he invited her to ride with 
him in the Ferris wheel. He even bought a ticket for 
her, so it didn’t cost her anything. When Mrs. Arable 
happened to look up into the starry sky and saw her 
little daughter sitting with Henry Fussy and going 
higher and higher into the air, and saw how happy Fern 
looked, she just shook her head. “My, my!” she said. 
“Henry Fussy. Think of that!” 
孩子们午睡后精神焕发。弗恩遇到了她的朋友亨利·弗西，亨利邀请她一起坐摩天轮。他还给她买了票，所以她一分钱都没花。阿拉布尔太太偶然抬头望向星空，看到她的小女儿和亨利·弗西坐在一起，摩天轮越升越高，弗恩看起来那么开心，她不禁摇了摇头。“哎呀，哎呀！”她说，“亨利·弗​​西，想想都觉得不可思议！”

Templeton kept out of sight. In the tall grass behind 
the cattle bam he found a folded newspaper. Inside it 
were leftovers from somebody’s lunch: a deviled ham 
sandwich, a piece of Swiss cheese, part of a hard-boiled 
egg, and the core of a wormy apple. The rat crawled 
in and ate everything. Then he tore a word out of the 
paper, rolled it up, and started back to Wilbur’s pen. 
坦普尔顿躲在暗处。他在牛棚后面的高草丛里找到一份折叠的报纸。里面装着别人午饭剩下的东西：一个火腿三明治、一块瑞士奶酪、半个煮鸡蛋，还有一个长了虫的苹果核。老鼠爬进去，把所有东西都吃光了。然后，他撕下报纸上的一个字，卷起来，往威尔伯的圈走去。

Charlotte had her web almost finished when Temple- 
ton returned, carrying the newspaper clipping. She had 
left a space in the middle of the web. At this hour, no 
people were around the pigpen, so the rat and the 
spider and the pig were by themselves. 
夏洛特织网快织好了，坦普尔顿带着那张报纸剪报回来了。她还在网的中间留了一块空白。这时猪圈周围一个人也没有，所以老鼠、蜘蛛和猪单独待在一起。

“I hope you brought a good one,” Charlotte said. “It 
is the last word I shall ever write.” 
“我希望你带来了一款好酒，”夏洛特说。“这将是我写下的最后一个字。”

“Here,” said Templeton, unrolling the paper. 
“给你，”坦普尔顿说着，展开了纸张。

“What does it say?” asked Charlotte. “You’ll have to 
read it for me.” 
“上面写了什么？”夏洛特问。“你得读给我听。”

“It says ‘Humble,’ ” replied the rat. 
“上面写着‘谦逊’，”老鼠回答道。

“Humble?” said Charlotte. “ ‘Humble’ has two 
meanings. It means ‘not proud’ and it means ‘near the 
ground.’ That’s Wilbur all over. He’s not proud and 
he’s near the ground.” 
“谦逊？”夏洛特说，“‘谦逊’有两个意思。它既指‘不骄傲’，也指‘脚踏实地’。威尔伯就是这样的人。他不骄傲，而且脚踏实地。”

“Well, I hope you’re satisfied,” sneered the rat. “I’m 
not going to spend all my time fetching and carrying. 
I came to this Fair to enjoy myself, not to deliver pa- 
pers.” 
“哼，希望你满意了，”老鼠冷笑道，“我可不想把所有时间都花在跑腿送信上。我来参加集市是为了玩乐，而不是送文件。”

“You’ve been very helpful,” Charlotte said. “Run 
along, if you want to see more of the Fair.” 
“你帮了我很大的忙，”夏洛特说。“如果你想继续参观博览会，就快走吧。”

The rat grinned. “I’m going to make a night of it,” 
he said. “The old sheep was right — this Fair is a rat’s 
paradise. What eating! And what drinking! And every- 
where good hiding and good hunting. Bye, bye, my 
humble Wilbur! Fare thee well, Charlotte, you old 
schemer! This will be a night to remember in a rat’s 
life.” 
老鼠咧嘴一笑。“今晚我要好好玩一玩，”他说。“老绵羊说得对——这集市简直是老鼠的天堂。吃喝玩乐应有尽有！到处都是藏身和狩猎的好地方。再见了，我卑微的威尔伯！再见了，夏洛特，你这个老奸巨猾的家伙！这将是老鼠一生中最难忘的一夜。”

He vanished into the shadows. 
他消失在了阴影中。

Charlotte went back to her work. It was quite dark 
now. In the distance, fireworks began going off — rock- 
ets, scattering fiery balls in the sky. By the time the 
Arables and the Zuckermans and Lurvy returned from 
the grandstand, Charlotte had finished her web. The 
word HUMBLE was woven neatly in the center. No- 
body noticed it in the darkness. Everyone was tired 
and happy. 
夏洛特又回去继续织布了。天色已经很暗了。远处，烟花开始绽放——火箭弹在空中划出道道火球。等阿拉布尔一家、祖克曼一家和卢维从看台上回来时，夏洛特已经织完了她的网。网的中心整齐地织着“谦逊”二字。黑暗中，没有人注意到它。大家都又累又开心。

Fern and Avery climbed into the truck and lay 
down. They pulled the Indian blanket over them. 
Lurvy gave Wilbur a forkful of fresh straw. Mr. 
Arable patted him. “Time for us to go home,” he said 
to the pig. “See you tomorrow.” 
弗恩和艾弗里爬进卡车，躺了下来。他们拉过印第安毯盖在身上。勒维用叉子叉了一把新鲜的稻草给威尔伯吃。阿拉布尔先生拍了拍它。“我们该回家了，”他对猪说。“明天见。”

The grownups climbed slowly into the truck and 
Wilbur heard the engine start and then heard the truck 
moving away in low speed. He would have felt lonely 
and homesick, had Charlotte not been with him. He 
never felt lonely when she was near. In the distance he 
could still hear the music of the merry-go-round. 
大人们缓缓爬上卡车，威尔伯听到引擎启动的声音，然后听到卡车缓缓驶离。如果不是夏洛特陪着他，他一定会感到孤独和想家。只要夏洛特在身边，他就从不感到孤独。远处，他还能听到旋转木马的音乐。

As he was dropping off to sleep he spoke to Char- 
lotte. 
他快要睡着的时候，和夏洛特说了些什么。

“Sing me that song again, about the dung and the 
dark,” he begged. 
“再给我唱一遍那首关于粪便和黑暗的歌吧，”他恳求道。

“Not tonight,” she said in a low voice. “I’m too 
tired.” Her voice didn’t seem to come from her web. 
“今晚不行，”她低声说道，“我太累了。”她的声音似乎并非来自蛛网。

“Where are your” asked Wilbur. “I can’t see you. 
Are you on your web?” 
“你在哪儿？”威尔伯问。“我看不见你。你在上网吗？”

“I’m back here,” she answered. “Up in this back cor- 
ner. 
“我又回来了，”她回答说。“就在后面的角落里。”

“Why aren’t you on your web?” asked Wilbur. 
“You almost never leave your web.” 
“你为什么不上网？”威尔伯问道，“你几乎从不离开你的网站。”

“I’ve left it tonight,” she said. 
“我今晚把它留下了，”她说。

Wilbur closed his eyes. “Charlotte,” he said, after a 
while, “do you really think Zuckerman will let me live 
and not kill me when the cold weather comes? Do you 
really think so?” 
威尔伯闭上了眼睛。“夏洛特，”过了一会儿，他说道，“你真的认为祖克曼会在寒冷天气到来时放过我，不杀了我吗？你真的这么认为吗？”

“Of course,” said Charlotte. “You are a famous pig 
and you are a good pig. Tomorrow you will probably 
win a prize. The whole world will hear about you. 
Zuckerman will be proud and happy to own such a pig. 
You have nothing to fear, Wilbur — nothing to worry 
about. Maybe you’ll live forever — who knows? And 
now, go to sleep.” 
“当然，”夏洛特说，“你是一头名猪，也是一头好猪。明天你很可能会得奖。全世界都会知道你的事迹。祖克曼先生会为拥有这样一头猪而感到骄傲和高兴。威尔伯，你没什么好怕的，没什么好担心的。说不定你会永远活下去——谁知道呢？好了，现在，睡觉吧。”

For a while there was no sound. Then Wilbur’s 
voice: 
“What are you doing up there, Charlotte?” 
一阵寂静之后，威尔伯的声音传来：“夏洛特，你在上面干什么呢？”

“Oh, making something,” she said. “Making some- 
thing, as usual.” 
“哦，我在做点什么，”她说。“像往常一样，我在做点什么。”

“Is it something for me?” asked Wilbur. 
“这是给我的吗？”威尔伯问道。

“No,” said Charlotte. “It’s something for me , for a 
change.” 
“不，”夏洛特说，“这是我自己的事，换换口味。”

“Please tell me what it is,” begged Wilbur. 
“请告诉我那是什么，”威尔伯恳求道。

“I’ll tell you in the morning,” she said. “When the 
first light comes into the sky and the sparrows stir and 
the cows rattle their chains, when the rooster crows 
and the stars fade, when early cars whisper along the 
highway, you look up here and I’ll show you some- 
thing. I will show you my masterpiece.” 
“明天早上我再告诉你，”她说。“当第一缕阳光照耀天空，麻雀开始活动，牛群发出链子的沙沙声，当公鸡啼鸣，繁星渐渐隐去，当清晨的汽车在公路上低语时，你抬头看看，我会让你看到一些东西。我会让你看到我的杰作。”

Before she finished the sentence, Wilbur was asleep. 
She could tell by the sound of his breathing that he was 
sleeping peacefully, deep in the straw. 
她话还没说完，威尔伯就睡着了。从他的呼吸声中，她就能听出来他睡得很香，深深地埋在稻草堆里。

Miles away, at the Arables’ house, the men sat around 
the kitchen table eating a dish of canned peaches and 
talking over the events of the day. Upstairs, Avery was 
already in bed and asleep. Mrs. Arable was tucking 
Fern into bed. 
远在几英里之外的阿拉布尔家，男人们围坐在厨房的桌子旁，吃着一盘罐装桃子，聊着当天发生的事情。楼上，艾弗里已经上床睡觉了。阿拉布尔太太正在哄费恩睡觉。

“Did you have a good time at the Fair?” she asked as 
she kissed her daughter. 
“你在集市上玩得开心吗？”她一边问，一边亲吻了女儿。

Fern nodded. “I had the best time I have ever had 
anywhere or any time in all of my whole life.” 
费恩点了点头。“这是我一生中最美好的时光，没有之一。”

“Well!” said Mrs. Arable. “Isn’t that nice!” 
“哇！”阿拉布尔太太说，“那真好啊！”

NEXT morning when the first light came into 
the sky and the sparrows stirred in the 
trees, when the cows rattled their chains 
and the rooster crowed and the early auto- 
mobiles went whispering along the road, Wilbur awoke 
and looked for Charlotte. He saw her up overhead in a 
corner near the back of his pen. She was very quiet. 
Her eight legs were spread wide. She seemed to have 
shrunk during the night. Next to her, attached to the 
ceiling, Wilbur saw a curious object. It was a sort of 
sac, or cocoon. It was peach-colored and looked as 
though it were made of cotton candy. 
第二天清晨，当第一缕阳光洒满天空，麻雀在树上苏醒，奶牛的项圈发出沙沙声，公鸡啼鸣，早起的汽车沿着道路低声驶过时，威尔伯醒了过来，四处寻找夏洛特。他看到夏洛特在鸡舍后方角落的上方。她非常安静，八条腿张开着，似乎一夜之间缩水了。在她旁边，挂在天花板上的，威尔伯看到一个奇怪的东西，像个囊状物，或者说茧。它是桃色的，看起来像棉花糖做的。

“Are you awake, Charlotte?” he said softly. 
“夏洛特，你醒了吗？”他轻声问道。

“Yes,” came the answer. 
“是的，”对方回答道。

“What is that nifty little thing? Did you make it? ” 
“那是什么精巧的小玩意儿？是你做的吗？”

“I did indeed,” replied Charlotte in a weak voice. 
“Is it a plaything?” 
“我确实做了，”夏洛特虚弱地回答道。“这是个玩具吗？”

“Plaything? I should say not. It is my egg sac, my 
magnum opus." 
“玩物？我倒不这么认为。这是我的卵囊，我的杰作。”

“I don’t know what a magnum opus is,” said Wilbur. 
“我不知道什么是鸿篇巨制，”威尔伯说。

“That’s Latin,” explained Charlotte. “It means 
‘great work.’ This egg sac is my great work — the finest 
thing I have ever made.” 
“那是拉丁语，”夏洛特解释说，“意思是‘伟大的作品’。这个卵囊就是我的伟大作品——是我做过的最棒的东西。”

“What’s inside it?” asked Wilbur. “Eggs?” 
“里面是什么？”威尔伯问。“鸡蛋吗？”

“Five hundred and fourteen of them,” she replied. 
“Five hundred and four teen}” said Wilbur. “You’re 
kidding.” 
“五百一十四个，”她回答说。“五百一十四个，”威尔伯说。“你在开玩笑吧。”

“No, I’m not. I counted them. I got started counting, 
so I kept on — just to keep my mind occupied.” 
“不，我没有。我数过了。我开始数了，就一直数下去了——只是为了让自己的大脑忙起来。”

“It’s a perfectly beautiful egg sac,” said Wilbur, 
feeling as happy as though he had constructed it him- 
self. 
“这是一个非常漂亮的卵囊，”威尔伯说道，他感到无比高兴，仿佛这是他自己亲手制作的一样。

“Yes, it is pretty,” replied Charlotte, patting the sac 
with her two front legs. “Anyway, I can guarantee that 
it is strong. It’s made out of the toughest material I 
have. It is also waterproof. The eggs are inside and will 
be warm and dry.” 
“是啊，它很漂亮，”夏洛特一边说着，一边用两只前腿拍了拍袋子。“总之，我可以保证它很结实。它是用我能找到的最坚韧的材料做的。而且它还防水。蛋在里面，会很温暖干燥。”

“Charlotte,” said Wilbur dreamily, “are you really 
going to have five hundred and fourteen children?” 
“If nothing happens, yes,” she said. “Of course, they 
won’t show up till next spring.” Wilbur noticed that 
Charlotte’s voice sounded sad. 
“夏洛特，”威尔伯梦呓般地问，“你真的要生五百一十四个孩子吗？” “如果一切顺利的话，是的，”她说。“当然，他们要到明年春天才会出生。” 威尔伯注意到夏洛特的声音听起来有些悲伤。

“What makes you sound so down-hearted? I should 
think you’d be terribly happy about this.” 
“是什么让你如此沮丧？我以为你会为此感到非常高兴呢。”

“Oh, don’t pay any attention to me,” said Charlotte. 
“I just don’t have much pep any more. I guess I feel sad 
because I won’t ever see my children.” 
“哦，别理我，”夏洛特说。“我没什么精神了。我想我难过的是，我再也见不到我的孩子们了。”

“What do you mean you won’t see your children! 
Of coarse you will. We’ll all see them. It’s going to be 
simply wonderful next spring in the barn cellar with 
five hundred and fourteen baby spiders running around 
all over the place. And the geese will have a new set of 
goslings, and the sheep will have their new lambs . . .” 
“Maybe,” said Charlotte quietly. “However, I have 
a feeling I’m not going to see the results of last night’s 
efforts. I don’t feel good at all. I think I’m languishing, 
to tell you the truth.” 
“什么？你说你见不到你的孩子们！当然能见。我们都能见到他们。明年春天，谷仓地窖里肯定会热闹非凡，五百一十四只小蜘蛛到处乱窜。鹅群也会迎来新的小鹅，绵羊群也会迎来新的小羊……” “也许吧，”夏洛特轻声说道，“不过，我感觉昨晚的努力可能看不到成果了。我一点也不觉得舒服。说实话，我觉得自己快要崩溃了。”

Wilbur didn’t understand the word “languish” and 
he hated to bother Charlotte by asking her to explain. 
But he was so worried he felt he had to ask. 
威尔伯不懂“languish”（衰弱）这个词，他很不愿意麻烦夏洛特去问他。但他实在太担心了，觉得不得不问。

“What does ‘languishing’ mean?” 
“‘萎靡不振’是什么意思？”

“It means I’m slowing up, feeling my age. I’m not 
young any more, Wilbur. But I don’t want you to 
worry about me. This is your big day today. Look at 
my web — doesn’t it show up well with the dew on it?” 
Charlotte’s web never looked more beautiful than it 
looked this morning. Each strand held dozens of bright 
drops of early morning dew. The light from the east 
struck it and made it all plain and clear. It was a perfect 
piece of designing and building. In another hour or 
two, a steady stream of people would pass by, admiring 
it, and reading it, and looking at Wilbur, and marvel- 
ing at the miracle. 
“这意味着我动作慢了，感觉自己老了。威尔伯，我不再年轻了。但我不想让你担心我。今天是你的重要日子。看看我的蛛网——露水让它看起来更清晰了，不是吗？”夏洛的蛛网从未像今天早上这样美丽。每一根蛛丝上都挂着几十滴晶莹的晨露。东方的阳光照射在上面，让一切都清晰可见。这是一幅设计精巧、建造完美的作品。再过一两个小时，就会有络绎不绝的人们经过，欣赏蛛网，阅读蛛丝，看着威尔伯，惊叹于这奇迹。

As Wilbur was studying the web, a pair of whiskers 
and a sharp face appeared. Slowly Templeton dragged 
himself across the pen and threw himself down in a 
corner. 
威尔伯正在研究蛛网时，突然出现了一对胡须和一张尖脸。坦普尔顿慢慢地爬过围栏，一屁股坐在了角落里。

“I’m back,” he said in a husky voice. “What a night! ” 
“我回来了，”他用沙哑的声音说道。“真是个难忘的夜晚！”

The rat was swollen to twice his normal size. His 
stomach was as big around as a jelly jar. 
这只老鼠肿胀到正常大小的两倍，肚子像果酱罐一样大。

“What a night!” he repeated, hoarsely. “What feast- 
ing and carousing! A real gorge! I must have eaten the 
remains of thirty lunches. Never have I seen such leav- 
ings, and everything well-ripened and seasoned with 
the passage of time and the heat of the day. Oh, it was 
rich, my friends, rich! ” 
“多么精彩的一夜啊！”他沙哑地重复道，“多么饕餮盛宴啊！简直是一场盛宴！我肯定吃了三十顿午饭的剩菜。我从未见过如此丰盛的剩菜，而且所有食材都经过时间的沉淀和白天的炙烤，变得成熟入味。哦，我的朋友们，真是太丰盛了！”

“You ought to be ashamed of yourself,” said Char- 
lotte in disgust. “It would serve you right if you had an 
acute attack of indigestion.” 
“你应该感到羞耻，”夏洛特厌恶地说，“你活该得严重的消化不良。”

“Don’t worry about my stomach,” snarled Temple- 
ton. “It can handle anything. And by the way, I’ve got 
some bad news. As I came past that pig next door — the 
one that calls himself Uncle — I noticed a blue tag on 
the front of his pen. That means he has won first prize. 
I guess you’re licked, Wilbur. You might as well relax 
— nobody is going to hang any medal on you. Further- 
more, I wouldn’t be surprised if Zuckerman changes 
his mind about you. Wait till he gets hankering for 
some fresh pork and smoked ham and crisp bacon! He’ll 
take the knife to you, my boy.” 
“别担心我的胃，”坦普尔顿咆哮道，“它什么都能吃得下。对了，我有个坏消息。我路过隔壁那头猪——就是自称‘叔叔’的那头——的时候，注意到它猪圈前面挂着个蓝色的标签。那意味着它得了头奖。看来你输定了，威尔伯。你最好放松点——没人会给你挂什么奖牌。而且，如果祖克曼改变主意，我一点也不会惊讶。等着瞧吧，等他馋了新鲜猪肉、熏火腿和脆培根的时候！他会拿刀砍了你的，小子。”

“Be still, Templeton!” said Charlotte. “You’re too 
stuffed and bloated to know what you’re saying. Don’t 
pay any attention to him, Wilbur! ” 
“别说话，坦普尔顿！”夏洛特说，“你吃得太饱太胀了，根本不知道自己在说什么。别理他，威尔伯！”

Wilbur tried not to think about what the rat had just 
said. He decided to change the subject. 
威尔伯尽量不去想老鼠刚才说的话，决定换个话题。

“Templeton,” said Wilbur, “if you weren’t so dopey, 
you would have noticed that Charlotte has made an egg 
sac. She is going to become a mother. For your infor- 
mation, there are five hundred and fourteen eggs in that 
peachy little sac.” 
“坦普尔顿，”威尔伯说，“如果你不是这么笨，你就会注意到夏洛特已经产卵了。她要当妈妈了。告诉你，那个漂亮的小卵囊里有五百一十四个卵。”

“Is this true?” asked the rat, eyeing the sac suspi- 
ciously. 
“这是真的吗？”老鼠问道，狐疑地打量着那个囊袋。

“Yes, it’s true,” sighed Charlotte. 
“是的，没错，”夏洛特叹了口气。

“Congratulations! ” murmured Templeton. “This has 
been a night!” He closed his eyes, pulled some straw 
over himself, and dropped off into a deep sleep. Wil- 
bur and Charlotte were glad to be rid of him for a 
while. 
“恭喜！”坦普尔顿低声说道，“这真是个难忘的夜晚！”他闭上眼睛，拉过一些稻草盖在身上，沉沉睡去。威尔伯和夏洛特很高兴能暂时摆脱他。

At nine o’clock, Mr. Arable’s truck rolled into the 
Fair Grounds and came to a stop at Wilbur’s pen. 
Everybody climbed out. 
九点钟，阿拉布尔先生的卡车驶入博览会场地，停在了威尔伯的围栏前。大家都下了车。

“Look!” cried Fern. “Look at Charlotte’s web! Look 
what it says!” 
“快看！”弗恩喊道，“快看夏洛的网！快看上面写了什么！”

The grownups and the children joined hands and 
stood there, studying the new sign. 
大人和孩子们手拉着手站在那里，仔细观察着新的标志。

“ ‘Humble,’ ” said Mr. Z'uckerman. “Now isn’t that 
just the word for Wilbur!” 
“‘谦逊’，”祖克曼先生说。“这不正是威尔伯最贴切的形容词吗！”

Everyone rejoiced to find that the miracle of the web 
had been repeated. Wilbur gazed up lovingly into their 
faces. He looked very humble and very grateful. Fern 
winked at Charlotte. Lurvy soon got busy. He poured 
a bucket of warm slops into the trough, and while Wil- 
bur ate his breakfast Lurvy scratched him gently with 
a smooth stick. 
大家欣喜地发现蛛网的奇迹再次重现。威尔伯仰头深情地望着大家，神情谦卑而感激。弗恩朝夏洛眨了眨眼。拉维很快忙了起来，他往食槽里倒了一桶温热的泔水，威尔伯吃早餐的时候，拉维用一根光滑的棍子轻轻地挠着他的痒。

“Wait a minute!” cried Avery. “Look at this!” He 
pointed to the blue tag on Uncle’s pen. “This pig has 
won first prize already.” 
“等等！”艾弗里喊道，“快看这个！”他指着叔叔猪圈上的蓝色标签，“这头猪已经得过一等奖了。”

The Zuckermans and the Arables stared at the tag. 
Mrs. Zuckerman began to cry. Nobody said a word. 
They just stared at the tag. Then they stared at Uncle. 
Then they stared at the tag again. Lurvy took out an 
enormous handkerchief and blew his nose very loud — 
so loud, in fact, that the noise was heard by stableboys 
over at the horse barn. 
祖克曼一家和阿拉布尔一家盯着标签看。祖克曼太太开始哭了起来。谁也没说话，只是盯着标签看。然后他们又盯着叔叔看。接着他们又盯着标签看。勒维掏出一块巨大的手帕，用力擤了擤鼻子——声音大到连马厩里的马夫都听到了。

“Can I have some money?” asked Fern. “I want to 
go out on the midway.” 
“我能要点钱吗？”弗恩问。“我想去游乐场玩。”

“You stay right where you are!” said her mother. 
Tears came to Fern’s eyes. 
“你就待在原地别动！”她妈妈说。弗恩的眼里涌出了泪水。

“What’s everybody crying about?” asked Mr. Zuck- 
erman. “Let’s get busy! Edith, bring the buttermilk! ” 
Mrs. Zuckerman wiped her eyes with her handker- 
chief. She went to the truck and came back with a gal- 
lon jar of buttermilk. 
“大家都在哭什么呢？”祖克曼先生问道。“快点干活！伊迪丝，把酪乳拿来！”祖克曼太太用手帕擦了擦眼睛，走到卡车旁，拿回来一大罐酪乳。

“Bath time!” said Zuckerman, cheerfully. He and 
Mrs. Zuckerman and Avery climbed into Wilbur’s pen. 
Avery slowly poured buttermilk on Wilbur’s head and 
back, and as it trickled down his sides and cheeks, Mr. 
and Mrs. Zuckerman rubbed it into his hair and skin. 
Passersbv stopped to watch. Pretty soon quite a crowd 
had gathered. Wilbur grew beautifully white and 
smooth. The morning sun shone through his pink ears. 
“洗澡时间到！”祖克曼先生兴高采烈地说。他和祖克曼太太还有艾弗里一起爬进了威尔伯的笼子。艾弗里慢慢地把酪乳倒在威尔伯的头上和背上，酪乳顺着他的侧身和脸颊流下来，祖克曼夫妇则帮他把酪乳揉进毛发和皮肤里。路人纷纷驻足观看。很快，围观的人就多了起来。威尔伯的毛发变得又白又光滑，非常漂亮。清晨的阳光透过他粉红色的耳朵照进来。

“He isn’t as big as that pig next door,” remarked one 
bystander, “but he’s cleaner. That’s what I like.” 
一位旁观者评论道：“他虽然没有隔壁那头猪那么大，但他更干净。我喜欢这一点。”

“So do I,” said another man. 
“我也是。”另一名男子说道。

“He’s humble, too,” said a woman, reading the sign 
on the web. 
“他也很谦逊，”一位女士一边看着网上的标语一边说道。

Everybody who visited the pigpen had a good word 
to say about Wilbur. Everyone admired the web. And 
of course nobody noticed Charlotte. 
凡是来猪圈参观的人，都对威尔伯赞不绝口。每个人都对那张网赞叹不已。当然，没人注意到夏洛特。

Suddenly a voice was heard on the loud speaker. 
突然，扬声器里传来一个声音。

“Attention, please!” it said. “Will Mr. Homer Zuck- 
erman bring his famous pig to the judges’ booth in front 
of the grandstand. A special award will be made there 
in twenty minutes. Everyone is invited to attend. Crate 
your pig, please, Mr. Zuckerman, and report to the 
judges’ booth promptly!” 
“请注意！”广播里说，“请霍默·扎克曼先生把他的名猪带到看台前的评委席。二十分钟后将在那里颁发一个特别奖。欢迎大家前来参加。扎克曼先生，请把您的猪装进笼子，并准时到评委席报到！”

For a moment after this announcement, the Arables 
and the Zuckermans were unable to speak or move. 
Then Avery picked up a handful of straw and threw it 
high in the air and gave a loud yell. The straw fluttered 
down like confetti into Fern’s hair. Mr. Zuckerman 
hugged Mrs. Zuckerman. Mr. Arable kissed Mrs. Ara- 
ble. Avery kissed Wilbur. Lurvy shook hands with 
everybody. Fern hugged her mother. Avery hugged 
Fern. Mrs. Arable hugged Mrs. Zuckerman. 
宣布之后，阿拉布尔一家和祖克曼一家一时语塞，动弹不得。这时，艾弗里抓起一把稻草，高高抛向空中，大声喊叫起来。稻草像五彩纸屑一样飘落到弗恩的头发里。祖克曼先生拥抱了祖克曼太太。阿拉布尔先生亲吻了阿拉布尔太太。艾弗里亲吻了威尔伯。卢维和每个人都握了手。弗恩拥抱了她的母亲。艾弗里拥抱了弗恩。阿拉布尔太太拥抱了祖克曼太太。

Up overhead, in the shadows of the ceiling, Char- 
lotte crouched unseen, her front legs encircling her egg 
sac. Her heart was not beating as strongly as usual and 
she felt weary and old, but she was sure at last that she 
had saved Wilbur’s life, and she felt peaceful and con- 
tented. 
在头顶的阴影里，夏洛特蜷缩着身子，前腿环抱着卵囊，不为人知。她的心跳不如往常有力，感到疲惫衰老，但她终于确信自己救了威尔伯的命，心中感到平静而满足。

“We have no time to lose!” shouted Mr. Zucker- 
man. “Lurvy, help with the crate!” 
“我们没时间浪费了！”祖克曼先生喊道，“拉维，帮忙搬箱子！”

“Can I have some money?” asked Fern. 
“我能要点钱吗？”弗恩问道。

“You wait ” said Mrs. Arable. “Can’t you see every- 
body is busy?” 
“你等等，”阿拉布尔太太说，“你没看到大家都在忙吗？”

“Put that empty buttermilk jar into the truck!” com- 
manded Mr. Arable. Avery grabbed the jar and rushed 
to the truck. 
“把那个空的酪乳罐子放到卡车里！”阿拉布尔先生命令道。艾弗里抓起罐子，冲向卡车。

“Does my hair look all right?” asked Mrs. Zucker- 
man. 
“我的头发看起来怎么样？”祖克曼太太问道。

“Looks fine,” snapped Mr. Zuckerman, as he and 
Lurvy set the crate down in front of Wilbur. 
“看起来不错，”祖克曼先生厉声说道，他和卢维把箱子放在威尔伯面前。

“You didn’t even look at my hair! ” said Mrs. Zuck- 
erman. 
“你连我的头发都没看一眼！”祖克曼太太说。

“You’re all right, Edith,” said Mrs. Arable. “Just 
keep calm.” 
“你没事的，伊迪丝，”阿拉布尔太太说，“冷静点。”

Templeton, asleep in the straw, heard the commo- 
tion and awoke. He didn’t know exactly what was 
going on, but when he saw the men shoving Wilbur 
into the crate he made up his mind to go along. He 
watched his chance and when no one was looking he 
crept into the crate and buried himself in the straw at 
the bottom. 
睡在稻草堆里的坦普尔顿听到动静醒了过来。他不太清楚发生了什么，但当他看到那些人把威尔伯推进板条箱时，他决定也跟着进去。他伺机而动，趁人不注意，悄悄溜进板条箱，把自己埋在底部的稻草里。

“All ready, boys!” cried Mr. Zuckerman. “Let’s go!” 
He and Mr. Arable and Lurvy and Avery grabbed the 
crate and boosted it over the side of the pen and up 
into the truck. Fern jumped aboard and sat on top of 
the crate. She still had straw in her hair and looked very 
pretty and excited. Mr. Arable started the motor. 
Everyone climbed in, and off they drove to the judge’s 
booth in front of the grandstand. 
“准备好了，孩子们！”祖克曼先生喊道，“出发！”他和阿拉布尔先生、卢维和艾弗里一起搬起箱子，把它抬过围栏，放到卡车上。弗恩跳上车，坐在箱子上。她头发里还夹着稻草，看起来既漂亮又兴奋。阿拉布尔先生发动了引擎。大家都上了车，他们出发前往看台前的裁判席。

As they passed the Ferris wheel, Fern gazed up at it 
and wished she were in the topmost car with Henry 
Fussy at her side. 
当他们经过摩天轮时，弗恩抬头望着它，心想如果自己能和亨利·弗西一起坐在最上面的车厢里就好了。

SPECIAL announcement!” said the loud speaker 
in a pompous voice. “The management of the 
I Fair takes great pleasure in presenting Mr. 
Homer L. Zuckerman and his famous pig. The 
truck bearing this extraordinary animal is now ap- 
proaching the infield. Kindly stand back and give the 
truck room to proceed! In a few moments the pig will 
be unloaded in the special judging ring in front of the 
grandstand, where a special award will be made. Will 
the crowd please make way and let the truck pass. 
Thank you.” 
“特别公告！”扩音器用洪亮的声音说道，“博览会组委会非常荣幸地向大家介绍霍默·L·祖克曼先生和他那头著名的猪。载着这头非凡动物的卡车正在驶近内场。请各位后退，给卡车让路！稍后，这头猪将被卸到看台前的特设评选圈，届时将颁发特别奖。请各位让路，让卡车通过。谢谢。”

Wilbur trembled when he heard this speech. He felt 
happy but dizzy. The truck crept along slowly irt low 
speed. Crowds of people surrounded it, and Mr. Arable 
had to drive very carefully in order not to run over 
anybody. At last he managed to reach the judges’ stand. 
Avery jumped out and lowered the tailgate. 
威尔伯听到这番话，浑身颤抖。他既高兴又头晕。卡车缓缓地低速行驶着。人群围拢过来，阿拉布尔先生不得不小心翼翼地驾驶，以免撞到人。最终，他终于到达了法官席。艾弗里跳下车，放下了后挡板。

“I’m scared to death,” whispered Mrs. Zuckerman. 
“Hundreds of people are looking at us.” 
“我吓死了，”祖克曼太太低声说，“几百号人都在看着我们。”

“Cheer up,” replied Mrs. Arable, “this is fun.” 
“振作起来，”阿拉布尔太太回答说，“这很有趣。”

“Unload your pig, please!” said the loud speaker. 
“All together, now, boys!” said Mr. Zuckerman. Sev- 
eral men stepped forward from the crowd to help lift 
the crate. Avery was the busiest helper of all. 
“请把猪卸下来！”扩音器里传来声音。“伙计们，都过来！”祖克曼先生喊道。几个男人从人群中走出来帮忙抬箱子。艾弗里是其中最忙的。

“Tuck your shirt in, Avery! ” cried Mrs. Zuckerman. 
“And tighten your belt. Your pants are coming down.” 
“Can’t you see I’m busy?” replied Avery in disgust. 
“Look!” cried Fern, pointing. “There’s Henry!” 
“Don’t shout, Fern!” said her mother. “And don’t 
point!” 
“艾弗里，把衬衫塞进裤子里！”祖克曼太太喊道，“还有，把腰带系紧点，裤子快掉下来了。”“你没看到我在忙吗？”艾弗里厌恶地回答。“看！”弗恩指着说，“那是亨利！”“弗恩，别喊了！”她妈妈说，“也别指着别人！”

“Can’t I please have some money?” asked Fern. 
“Henry invited me to go on the Ferris wheel again, 
only I don’t think he has any money left. He ran out 
of money.” 
“能不能给我点钱？”弗恩问道，“亨利又邀请我去坐摩天轮了，可是我觉得他没钱了。他把钱都花光了。”

Mrs. Arable opened her handbag. “Here,” she said. 
“Here is forty cents. Now don’t get lost! And be back 
at our regular meeting place by the pigpen very soon!” 
Fern raced off, ducking and dodging through the 
crowd, in search of Henry. 
阿拉布尔太太打开手提包。“给你，”她说，“这是四十美分。别迷路了！快点回到我们猪圈旁边的常去处！”弗恩飞快地跑开，在人群中闪躲腾挪，去找亨利。

“The Zuckerman pig is now being taken from his 
crate,” boomed the voice of the loud speaker. “Stand 
by for an announcement! ” 
“祖克曼猪现在要从笼子里被牵出来了！”扩音器里传来洪亮的声音。“请稍候，稍后会有公告！”

Templeton crouched under the straw at the bottom 
of the crate. “What a lot of nonsense!” muttered the 
rat. “What a lot of fuss about nothing!” 
坦普尔顿蹲在板条箱底部的稻草下。“真是胡说八道！”老鼠嘟囔着，“真是小题大做！”

Over in the pigpen, silent and alone, Charlotte rested. 
Her two front legs embraced the egg sac. Charlotte 
could hear everything that was said on the loud speaker. 
The words gave her courage. This was her hour of 
triumph. 
在猪圈里，夏洛特独自静静地休息着。她的两条前腿紧紧地抱着卵囊。夏洛特能听到扬声器里传来的一切声音。那些话语给了她勇气。这是她胜利的时刻。

As Wilbur came out of the crate, the crowd clapped 
and cheered. Mr. Zuckerman took off his cap and 
bowed. Lurvy pulled his big handkerchief from his 
pocket and wiped the sweat from the back of his neck. 
Avery knelt in the dirt by Wilbur’s side, busily strok- 
ing him and showing off. Mrs. Zuckerman and Mrs. 
Arable stood on the running board of the truck. 
威尔伯从板条箱里出来时，人群鼓掌欢呼。祖克曼先生摘下帽子鞠躬致意。勒维从口袋里掏出大手帕，擦了擦后颈的汗。艾弗里跪在威尔伯身旁的泥地上，忙着抚摸它，还不忘炫耀一番。祖克曼太太和阿拉布尔太太站在卡车的踏板上。

“Ladeez and gentlemen,” said the loud speaker, “we 
now present Mr. Homer L. Zuckerman’s distinguished 
pig. The fame of this unique animal has spread to the 
far corners of the earth, attracting many valuable tour- 
ists to our great State. Many of you will recall that 
never-to-be-forgotten day last summer when the 
writing appeared mysteriously on the spider’s web in 
Mr. Zuckerman’s barn, calling the attention of all and 
sundry to the fact that this pig was completely out of 
the ordinary. This miracle has never been fully ex- 
plained, although learned men have visited the Zucker- 
man pigpen to study and observe the phenomenon. In 
the last analysis, we simply know that we are dealing 
with supernatural forces here, and we should all feel 
proud and grateful. In the words of the spider’s web, 
ladies and gentlemen, this is some pig.” 
“女士们先生们，”扩音器传来声音，“现在，我们隆重介绍霍默·L·祖克曼先生的非凡之猪。这头独特动物的名声已传遍世界各地，吸引了众多尊贵的游客来到我们伟大的州。你们中的许多人或许还记得去年夏天那令人难忘的一天：祖克曼先生的猪圈里，蜘蛛网上神秘地出现了文字，让所有人都注意到这头猪非同寻常。尽管博学之士曾到祖克曼家的猪圈研究观察这一现象，但这个奇迹至今仍未得到完全解释。归根结底，我们只能说，我们面对的是超自然的力量，我们都应该为此感到自豪和感激。正如蜘蛛网上所写，女士们先生们，这真是一头非凡的猪！”

Wilbur blushed. He stood perfectly still and tried 
to look his best. 
威尔伯脸红了。他一动不动地站着，努力让自己看起来最好。

“This magnificent animal,” continued the loud 
speaker, “is truly terrific. Look at him, ladies and 
gentlemen! Note the smoothness and whiteness of the 
coat, observe the spotless skin, the healthy pink glow 
of ears and snout.” 
“这只威风凛凛的动物，”扩音器继续说道，“真是太棒了。女士们先生们，看看它！注意它光滑洁白的皮毛，看看它无瑕的皮肤，还有它健康粉嫩的耳朵和鼻子。”

“It’s the buttermilk,” whispered Mrs. Arable to 
Mrs. Zuckerman. 
“是酪乳的问题，”阿拉布尔太太低声对祖克曼太太说。

“Note the general radiance of this animal! Then re- 
member the day when the word ‘radiant’ appeared 
clearly on the web. Whence came this mysterious 
writing? Not from the spider, we can rest assured of 
that. Spiders are very clever at weaving their webs, but 
needless to say spiders cannot write.” 
“注意这只动物散发出的光芒！再想想那天‘光芒四射’这个词清晰地出现在蛛网上的情景。这神秘的文字从何而来？我们可以肯定，它并非出自蜘蛛之手。蜘蛛织网固然技艺高超，但毋庸置疑，它们不会写字。”

“Oh, they can’t, can’t they?” murmured Charlotte 
to herself. 
“哦，他们做不到，对吧？”夏洛特喃喃自语道。

“Ladeez and gentlemen,” continued the loud 
speaker, “I must not take any more of your valuable 
time. On behalf of the governors of the Fair, I have the 
honor of awarding a special prize of twenty-five dollars 
to Mr. Zuckerman, together with a handsome bronze 
medal suitably engraved, in token of our appreciation 
of the part played by this pig — this radiant, this terrific, 
this humble pig — in attracting so many visitors to our 
great County Fair.” 
“女士们先生们，”扩音器继续说道，“我不能再占用你们宝贵的时间了。我谨代表博览会理事会，荣幸地向祖克曼先生颁发25美元的特别奖，以及一枚精美的铜质奖章，以表彰这头猪——这头光彩照人、威风凛凛、谦逊低调的猪——为我们县博览会吸引众多游客所做出的贡献。”

Wilbur had been feeling dizzier and dizzier through 
this long, complimentary speech. When he heard the 
crowd begin to cheer and clap again, he suddenly 
fainted away. His legs collapsed, his mind went blank, 
and he fell to the ground, unconscious. 
在冗长的赞扬演讲过程中，威尔伯感到越来越晕眩。当他听到人群再次开始欢呼鼓掌时，他突然昏了过去。他双腿一软，大脑一片空白，倒在地上，失去了知觉。

“What’s wrong?” asked the loud speaker. “What’s 
going on, Zuckerman? What’s the trouble with your 
Pig?” 
“怎么了？”扩音器问道，“祖克曼，出什么事了？你的猪怎么了？”

Avery was kneeling by Wilbur’s head, stroking him. 
Mr. Zuckerman was dancing about, fanning him with 
his cap. 
艾弗里跪在威尔伯的头边，轻轻抚摸着他。祖克曼先生则在一旁跳来跳去，用帽子给他扇风。

“He’s all right,” cried Mr. Zuckerman. “He gets 
these spells. He’s modest and can’t stand praise.” 
“Well, we can’t give a prize to a dead pig,” said the 
loud speaker. “It’s never been done.” 
“他没事，”祖克曼先生喊道，“他偶尔会发发脾气。他很谦虚，受不了别人夸奖。” “可是，我们总不能给一头死猪颁奖吧，”扩音器里传来声音，“这可是从来没有人做过的事。”

“He isn’t dead,” hollered Zuckerman. “He’s fainted. 
He gets embarrassed easily. Run for some water, 
Lurvy!” 
“他没死！”祖克曼大声喊道，“他晕过去了。他很容易害羞。快去拿点水来，拉维！”

Lurvy sprang from the judges’ ring and disappeared. 
Templeton poked his head from the straw. He 
noticed that the end of Wilbur’s tail was within reach. 
Templeton grinned. “I’ll tend to this,” he chuckled. 
He took Wilbur’s tail in his mouth and bit it, just as 
hard as he could bite. The pain revived Wilbur. In a 
flash he was back on his feet. 
卢维从裁判席上跳了出来，消失不见了。坦普尔顿从稻草堆里探出头来，发现威尔伯的尾巴尖就在他够得着的地方。坦普尔顿咧嘴一笑。“我来处理，”他轻笑着说。他用嘴叼住威尔伯的尾巴，使劲咬了一口。疼痛让威尔伯恢复了活力，瞬间又站了起来。

“Ouch!” he screamed.   “哎哟！”他尖叫道。

“Hoorray!” yelled the crowd. “He’s up! The pig’s 
up! Good work, Zuckerman! That’s some pig! ” Every- 
“好耶！”人群欢呼道。“它起来了！猪起来了！干得好，祖克曼！这猪真棒！”

one was delighted. Mr. Zuckerman was the most 
pleased of all. He sighed with relief. Nobody had seen 
Templeton. The rat had done his work well. 
有人欣喜若狂。祖克曼先生最为高兴，他如释重负地叹了口气。没人见过坦普尔顿，老鼠干得漂亮。

And now one of the judges climbed into the ring 
with the prizes. He handed Mr. Zuckerman two ten 
dollar bills and a five dollar bill. Then he tied the medal 
around Wilbur’s neck. Then he shook hands with Mr. 
Zuckerman while Wilbur blushed. Avery put out his 
hand and the judge shook hands with him, too. The 
crowd cheered. A photographer took Wilbur’s picture. 
这时，一位评委带着奖品爬进了赛场。他递给祖克曼先生两张十美元和一张五美元的钞票，然后把奖牌系在威尔伯的脖子上。接着，他跟祖克曼先生握手，威尔伯脸红了。艾弗里也伸出手，评委也跟他握了握手。人群欢呼起来。一位摄影师给威尔伯拍了张照片。

A great feeling of happiness swept over the Zucker- 
mans and the Arables. This was the greatest moment in 
Mr. Zuckerman’s life. It is deeply satisfying to win a 
prize in front of a lot of people. 
祖克曼一家和阿拉布尔一家都沉浸在巨大的幸福之中。这是祖克曼先生一生中最美好的时刻。在众人面前获奖，那种感觉真是无比满足。

As Wilbur was being shoved back into the crate, 
Lurvy came charging through the crowd carrying a 
pail of water. His eyes had a wild look. Without hesi- 
tating a second, he dashed the water at Wilbur. In his 
excitement he missed his aim, and the water splashed 
all over Mr. Zuckerman and Avery. They got soaking 
wet. 
威尔伯被推回板条箱时，勒维提着一桶水冲过人群。他眼神狂野，毫不犹豫地朝威尔伯泼去一桶水。由于太过兴奋，他没打准，水溅了祖克曼先生和艾弗里一身，把他们淋了个透。

“For goodness’ sake!” bellowed Mr. Zuckerman, 
who was really drenched. “What ails you, Lurvy? 
Can’t you see the pig is all right?” 
“我的天哪！”浑身湿透的祖克曼先生大声喊道，“拉维，你怎么了？你没看到猪没事吗？”

“You asked for water,” said Lurvy meekly. 
“你要水喝，”卢维温顺地说。

“I didn’t ask for a shower bath,” said Mr. Zucker- 
man. The crowd roared with lausrhter. Finally Mr. 
W * 
Zuckerman had to laugh, too. And of course Avery was 
tickled to find himself so wet, and he immediately 
started to act like a clown. He pretended he was taking 
a shower bath; he made faces and danced around and 
rubbed imaginary soap under his armpits. Then he 
dried himself with an imaginary towel. 
“我没要求淋浴，”祖克曼先生说道。人群哄堂大笑。最后，祖克曼先生也忍不住笑了起来。当然，艾弗里发现自己浑身湿透，也觉得很有趣，立刻开始像个小丑一样表演。他假装在淋浴，做鬼脸，跳来跳去，还在腋下抹着想象中的肥皂。然后，他又用想象中的毛巾擦干了自己。

“Avery, stop it!” cried his mother. “Stop showing 
off!” 
“艾弗里，别这样！”他妈妈喊道，“别炫耀了！”

But the crowd loved it. Avery heard nothing but the 
applause. He liked being a clown in a ring, with every- 
body watching, in front of a grandstand. When he dis- 
covered there was still a little water left in the bottom 
of the pail, he raised the pail high in the air and dumped 
the water on himself and made faces. The children in 
the grandstand screamed with appreciation. 
但观众们很喜欢。艾弗里耳边只有掌声。他喜欢在看台前，在众目睽睽之下，当个小丑。当他发现桶底还剩一点水时，他高高举起桶，把水泼在自己身上，还做了个鬼脸。看台上的孩子们兴奋地尖叫起来。

At last things calmed down. Wilbur was loaded into 
the truck. Avery was led from the ring by his mother 
and placed on the seat of the truck to dry off. The 
truck, driven by Mr. Arable, crawled slowly back to 
the pigpen. Avery’s wet trousers made a big wet spot 
on the seat. 
事情终于平静下来了。威尔伯被装上了卡车。艾弗里被他妈妈从圈里抱出来，放在卡车座位上晾干。卡车由阿拉布尔先生驾驶，缓缓地开回猪圈。艾弗里湿透的裤子在座位上留下了一大片湿痕。

HARLOTTE and Wilbur were alone. The 
medal still hung from his neck; by looking out of the 
corner of his eye he could see it. 
哈洛特和威尔伯单独待在一起。奖章还挂在他的脖子上；他用眼角余光瞥了一眼。

“Charlotte,” said Wilbur after a while, “why are 
you so quiet?” 
过了一会儿，威尔伯说：“夏洛特，你怎么这么安静？”

“I like to sit still,” she said. “I’ve always been rather 
quiet.” 
“我喜欢静静地坐着，”她说。“我一直都比较安静。”

“Yes, but you seem specially so today. Do you feel 
“是的，但你今天似乎特别如此。你觉得


“A little tired, perhaps. But I feel peaceful. Your 
success in the ring this morning was, to a small degree, 
my success. Your future is assured. You will live, secure 
and safe, Wilbur. Nothing can harm you now. These 
autumn days will shorten and grow cold. The leaves 
will shake loose from the trees and fall. Christmas will 
come, then the snows of winter. You will live to enjoy 
the beauty of the frozen world, for you mean a great 
families had gone to look for Fern. Temple- 
ton was asleep. Wilbur lay resting after the 
excitement and strain of the ceremony. His 
all right?” 
“或许有点累了。但我感到很平静。你今天早上在拳击台上的胜利，在某种程度上也是我的胜利。你的未来有保障。威尔伯，你会活得安稳平安。现在没有什么能伤害你了。秋日将至，天气转凉。树叶会从树上飘落。圣诞节会到来，然后是冬雪。你会活着欣赏冰雪世界的美丽，因为你代表着一个庞大的家族，他们已经去找弗恩了。坦普尔顿睡着了。威尔伯在仪式的激动和紧张之后，正在休息。他没事吧？”

deal to Zuckerman and he will not harm you, ever. 
Winter will pass, the days will lengthen, the ice will 
melt in the pasture pond. The song sparrow will return 
and sing, the frogs will awake, the warm wind will 
blow again. All these sights and sounds and smells will 
be yours to enjoy, Wilbur — this lovely world, these 
precious days . . .” 
跟祖克曼做个交易，他永远不会伤害你。冬天会过去，白昼会变长，牧场池塘里的冰会融化。歌雀会回来歌唱，青蛙会醒来，暖风会再次吹拂。威尔伯，所有这些景象、声音和气味都将属于你——这美丽的世界，这些珍贵的日子……”

Charlotte stopped. A moment later a tear came to 
Wilbur’s eye. “Oh, Charlotte,” he said. “To think that 
when I first met you I thought you were cruel and 
bloodthirsty! ” 
夏洛特停了下来。片刻之后，威尔伯眼眶里噙满了泪水。“哦，夏洛特，”他说，“想想当初我第一次见到你时，竟然觉得你残忍嗜血！”

When he recovered from his emotion, he spoke 
again. 
当他从情绪中平静下来后，他又开口说话了。

“Why did you do all this for me?” he asked. “I 
don’t deserve it. I’ve never done anything for you.” 
“你为什么要为我做这一切？”他问。“我不配。我从来没为你做过任何事。”

“You have been my friend,” replied Charlotte. 
“That in itself is a tremendous thing. I wove my webs 
for you because I liked you. After all, what’s a life, 
anyway? We’re born, we live a little while, we die. 
A spider’s life can’t help being something of a mess, 
with all this trapping and eating flies. By helping you, 
perhaps I was trying to lift up my life a trifle. Heaven 
knows anyone’s life can stand a little of that.” 
“你一直是我的朋友，”夏洛特回答说，“这本身就是一件了不起的事。我为你织网，是因为我喜欢你。毕竟，人生究竟是什么呢？我们出生，活一段时间，然后死去。蜘蛛的生活难免有些混乱，每天都在捕捉和吞食苍蝇。帮助你，或许也是为了让自己的生活稍微充实一些。天知道，任何人的生活都需要一点这样的充实。”

“Well,” said Wilbur. “I’m no good at making 
speeches. I haven’t got your gift for words. But you 
have saved me, Charlotte, and I would gladly give my 
life for you — I really would.” 
“嗯，”威尔伯说，“我不擅长演讲。我没有你那样的口才。但是你救了我，夏洛特，我愿意为你付出生命——真的。”

“I’m sure you would. And I thank you for your 
generous sentiments.” 
“我相信你会的。感谢你的慷慨之举。”

“Charlotte,” said Wilbur. “We’re all going home 
today. The Fair is almost over. Won’t it be wonderful 
to be back home in the barn cellar again with the sheep 
and the geese? Aren’t you anxious to get home?” 
“夏洛特，”威尔伯说，“我们今天都要回家了。集市快结束了。回到谷仓地窖，和羊群、鹅群在一起，该有多好啊！你是不是也迫不及待想回家了？”

For a moment Charlotte said nothing. Then she 
spoke in a voice so low Wilbur could hardly hear the 
words. 
夏洛特沉默了一会儿。然后她开口说话，声音低得威尔伯几乎听不见。

“I will not be going back to the bam,” she said. 
Wilbur leapt to his feet. “Not going back?” he cried. 
“Charlotte, what are you talking about?” 
“我不会再回那个鬼屋了，”她说。威尔伯猛地站了起来。“不回去了？”他喊道。“夏洛特，你在说什么？”

“I’m done for,” she replied. “In a day or two I’ll be 
dead. I haven’t even strength enough to climb down 
into the crate. I doubt if I have enough silk in my spin- 
nerets to lower me to the ground.” 
“我完了，”她回答说。“再过一两天我就会死。我甚至连爬进箱子里的力气都没有了。我怀疑我的纺丝器里是否有足够的丝线把我放到地上。”

Hearing this, Wilbur threw himself down in an 
agony of pain and sorrow. Great sobs racked his body. 
He heaved and grunted with desolation. “Charlotte,” 
he moaned. “Charlotte! My true friend!” 
听到这话，威尔伯悲痛欲绝，瘫倒在地。他呜咽着，身体剧烈抽搐。他痛苦地喘息着，发出绝望的呻吟。“夏洛特，”他哀嚎道，“夏洛特！我真正的朋友！”

“Come now, let’s not make a scene,” said the spider. 
“Be quiet, Wilbur. Stop thrashing about!” 
“好了，别闹了，”蜘蛛说。“安静点，威尔伯。别乱动了！”

“But I can’t stand it,” shouted Wilbur. “I won’t 
leave you here alone to die. If you’re going to stay here 
I shall stay, too.” 
“但我受不了了，”威尔伯喊道，“我不能让你一个人留在这里等死。如果你要留在这里，我也要留在这里。”

“Don’t be ridiculous,” said Charlotte. “You can’t 
stay here. Zuckerman and Lurvy and John Arable and 
the others will be back any minute now, and they’ll 
shove you into that crate and away you’ll go. Besides, 
it wouldn’t make any sense for you to stay. There 
would be no one to feed you. The Fair Grounds will 
soon be empty and deserted.” 
“别胡说，”夏洛特说，“你不能待在这里。祖克曼、卢维、约翰·阿拉布尔还有其他人随时都会回来，他们会把你塞进那个板条箱里，把你带走。再说，你留下来也毫无意义。没人会养你。游乐场很快就会空无一人，荒无人烟。”

Wilbur was in a panic. He raced round and round 
the pen. Suddenly he had an idea — he thought of the 
egg sac and the five hundred and fourteen little spiders 
that would hatch in the spring. If Charlotte herself 
was unable to go home to the barn, at least he must 
take her children along. 
威尔伯惊慌失措，在围栏里来回奔跑。突然，他灵机一动——他想到了卵囊，想到了春天即将孵化的五百一十四只小蜘蛛。如果夏洛特自己无法回到谷仓，至少他必须带上她的孩子们一起走。

Wilbur rushed to the front of his pen. He put his 
front feet up on the top board and gazed around. In 
the distance he saw the Arables and the Zuckermans 
approaching. He knew he would have to act quickly. 
威尔伯冲到围栏前面，把前爪搭在顶板上，环顾四周。他远远地看到阿拉布尔一家和祖克曼一家正朝这边走来。他知道自己必须迅速行动。

“Where’s Templeton?” he demanded. 
“坦普尔顿在哪儿？”他问道。

“He’s in that corner, under the straw, asleep,” said 
Charlotte. 
“他就在那个角落里，稻草下面，睡着了，”夏洛特说。

Wilbur rushed over, pushed his strong snout under 
the rat, and tossed him into the air. 
威尔伯冲了过去，用他强壮的鼻子顶住老鼠，把它抛向空中。

“Templeton!” screamed Wilbur. “Pay attention!” 
“坦普尔顿！”威尔伯喊道，“注意听！”

The rat, surprised out of a sound sleep, looked first 
dazed then disgusted. 
老鼠被惊醒，先是茫然，然后露出厌恶的表情。

“What kind of monkeyshine is this?” he growled. 
“Can’t a rat catch a wink of sleep without being rudely 
popped into the air?” 
“这算什么鬼把戏？”他咆哮道，“难道老鼠就不能好好睡一觉，非要被粗暴地抛到空中吗？”

“Listen to me!” cried Wilbur. “Charlotte is very ill. 
“听我说！”威尔伯喊道，“夏洛特病得很重。”

She has only a short time to live. She cannot accom- 
pany us home, because of her condition. Therefore, it 
is absolutely necessary that I take her egg sac with me. 
I can’t reach it, and I can’t climb. You are the only one 
that can get it. There’s not a second to be lost. The 
people are coming — they’ll be here in no time. Please, 
please, please , Templeton, climb up and get the egg 
sac.” 
她时日不多了。由于她的身体状况，她无法和我们一起回家。因此，我必须带走她的卵囊。我够不着，也爬不上去。只有你能拿到。一秒钟都不能耽搁。人们马上就到——他们马上就到。求求你，求求你，求求你，坦普尔顿，爬上去把卵囊拿上来。”

The rat yawned. He straightened his whiskers. Then 
he looked up at the egg sac. 
老鼠打了个哈欠，竖起了胡须，然后抬头看向卵囊。

“So!” he said, in disgust. “So it’s old Templeton to 
the rescue again, is it? Templeton do this, Templeton 
do that, Templeton please run down to the dump and 
get me a magazine clipping, Templeton please lend me 
a piece of string so I can spin a web.” 
“所以！”他厌恶地说，“又是老坦普尔顿来救场了，是吗？坦普尔顿做这个，坦普尔顿做那个，坦普尔顿快去垃圾场帮我找张杂志剪报，坦普尔顿快借我根绳子让我织张网。”

“Oh, hurry!” said Wilbur. “Hurry up, Templeton!” 
But the rat was in no hurry. He began imitating 
Wilbur’s voice. 
“哦，快点！”威尔伯说。“快点，坦普尔顿！”可是老鼠一点也不着急。它开始模仿威尔伯的声音。

“So it’s ‘Hurry up, Templeton,’ is it?” he said. “Ho, 
ho. And what thanks do I ever get for these services, I 
would like to know? Never a kind word for old Tem- 
pleton, only abuse and wisecracks and side remarks. 
Never a kind word for a rat.” 
“所以，你们就叫我‘快点，坦普尔顿’，是吗？”他说道。“呵呵。我想知道，我做了这些事，你们到底感谢过我什么？从来没有人对老坦普尔顿说过一句好话，只有谩骂、嘲讽和冷嘲热讽。从来没有人对一只老鼠说过一句好话。”

“Templeton,” said Wilbur in desperation, “if you 
don’t stop talking and get busy, all will be lost, and I 
will die of a broken heart. Please climb up!” 
“坦普尔顿，”威尔伯绝望地说，“如果你再不闭嘴动手，一切都完了，我会伤心而死的。求你爬上来吧！”

Templeton lay back in the straw. Lazily he placed 
his forepaws behind his head and crossed his knees, in 
an attitude of complete relaxation. 
坦普尔顿仰躺在稻草堆里。他懒洋洋地把前爪放在脑后，双膝交叉，一副完全放松的姿态。

“Die of a broken heart,” he mimicked. “How touch- 
ing! My, my! I notice that it’s always me you come to 
when in trouble. But I’ve never heard of anyone’s heart 
breaking on my account. Oh, no. Who cares anything 
about old Templeton?” 
“心碎而死，”他模仿着说。“真感人！哎呀！我发现你遇到麻烦的时候总是来找我。但我从没听说过有人因为我而心碎。哦，不。谁会在乎老坦普尔顿呢？”

“Get up!” screamed Wilbur. “Stop acting like a 
spoiled child!” 
“起来！”威尔伯尖叫道，“别像个被宠坏的孩子一样！”

Templeton grinned and lay still. “Who made trip 
after trip to the dump?” he asked. “Why, it was old 
Templeton!' Who saved Charlotte’s life by scaring that 
Arable boy away with a rotten goose egg? Bless my 
soul, I believe it was old Templeton. Who bit your 
tail and got you back on your feet this morning after 
you had fainted in front of the crowd? Old Temple- 
ton. Has it ever occurred to you that I’m sick of run- 
ning errands and doing favors? What do you think 
I am, anyway, a rat-of-all-work?” 
坦普尔顿咧嘴一笑，一动不动地躺着。“是谁一趟又一趟地跑去垃圾场？”他问道。“哎呀，是老坦普尔顿！”是谁用一个臭鹅蛋吓跑了阿拉布尔家的那个小子，救了夏洛特的命？我的天哪，我相信是老坦普尔顿。今天早上你晕倒在众人面前，是谁咬了你的尾巴把你扶起来的？还是老坦普尔顿。你有没有想过，我已经厌倦了跑腿办事？你以为我是什么？一只只会干活的老鼠吗？

Wilbur was desperate. The people were coming. 
And the rat was failing him. Suddenly he remembered 
Templeton’s fondness for food. 
威尔伯绝望了。人们马上就要来了。而那只老鼠却让他失望了。突然，他想起了坦普尔顿对食物的喜爱。

“Templeton,” he said, “I will make you a solemn 
promise. Get Charlotte’s egg sac for me, and from now 
on I will let you eat first, when Lurvy slops me. I will 
let you have your choice of everything in the trough 
and I won’t touch a thing until you’re through.” 
The rat sat up. “You mean that?” he said. 
“坦普尔顿，”他说，“我郑重地向你保证。帮我把夏洛特的卵囊弄来，从今以后，拉维喂我的时候，我会让你先吃。食槽里的东西你随便挑，在你吃完之前，我一口也不碰。”老鼠坐了起来。“你是认真的吗？”他问。

“I promise. I cross my heart.” 
“我保证。我发誓。”

“All right, it’s a deal,” said the rat. He walked to 
the wall and started to climb. His stomach was still 
swollen from last night’s gorge. Groaning and com- 
plaining, he pulled himself slowly to the ceiling. He 
crept along till he reached the egg sac. Charlotte 
moved aside for him. She was dying, but she still had 
strength enough to move a little. Then Templeton 
bared his long ugly teeth and began snipping the threads 
that fastened the sac to the ceiling. Wilbur watched 
from below. 
“好吧，成交。”老鼠说道。他走到墙边，开始往上爬。昨晚的暴食让他的肚子仍然鼓胀着。他一边呻吟抱怨，一边慢慢地爬向天花板。他一路爬行，直到爬到卵囊旁边。夏洛特为他让开了一条路。她快要死了，但还有力气动一下。这时，坦普尔顿露出了他那又长又丑的牙齿，开始剪断把卵囊固定在天花板上的线。威尔伯在下面看着。

“Use extreme care!” he said. “I don’t want a single 
one of those eggs harmed.” 
“务必格外小心！”他说道，“我不想让任何一个鸡蛋受到伤害。”

“Thith thtuff thticks in my mouth,” complained the 
rat. “It’th worth than caramel candy.” 
“这玩意儿卡在我嘴里，”老鼠抱怨道，“比焦糖还难吃。”

But Templeton worked away at the job, and man- 
aged to cut the sac adrift and carry it to the ground, 
where he dropped it in front of Wilbur. Wilbur 
heaved a great sigh of relief. 
但坦普尔顿努力工作，终于割断了漂浮的麻袋，把它带到地上，扔在威尔伯面前。威尔伯长舒了一口气。

“Thank you, Templeton,” he said. “I will never 
forget this as long as I live.” 
“谢谢你，坦普尔顿，”他说。“我这辈子都不会忘记这件事。”

“Neither will I,” said the rat, picking his teeth. “I 
feel as though I’d eaten a spool of thread. Well, home 
we go!” 
“我也不去，”老鼠一边剔牙一边说，“我感觉自己好像吞了一卷线。好了，我们回家吧！”

Templeton crept into the crate and buried himself 
in the straw. He got out of sight just in time. Lurvy 
and John Arable and Mr. Zuckerman came along at 
that moment, followed by Mrs. Arable and Mrs. Zuck- 
erman and Avery and Fern. Wilbur had already de- 
cided how he would carry the egg sac — there was only 
one way possible. He carefully took the little bundle 
in his mouth and held it there on top of his tongue. He 
remembered what Charlotte had told him — that the 
sac was waterproof and strong. It felt funny on his 
tongue and made him drool a bit. And of course he 
couldn’t say anything. But as he was being shoved into 
the crate, he looked up at Charlotte and gave her a 
wink. She knew he was saying good-bye in the only 
way he could. And she knew her children were safe. 
坦普尔顿悄悄溜进板条箱，把自己埋进了稻草里。他及时躲开了视线。这时，拉维、约翰·阿拉布尔和祖克曼先生走了过来，阿拉布尔太太、祖克曼太太、艾弗里和弗恩也跟了过来。威尔伯已经决定了如何携带卵囊——只有一种办法。他小心翼翼地把小包叼在嘴里，放在舌头上。他想起夏洛特告诉他的话——卵囊防水又结实。卵囊放在舌头上感觉怪怪的，让他有点流口水。当然，他什么也说不出来。但当他被推进板条箱时，他抬头看了看夏洛特，还朝她眨了眨眼。夏洛特知道这是他唯一能做的告别方式。她也知道她的孩子们安全了。

“Good-bye!” she whispered. Then she summoned 
all her strength and waved one of her front legs at him. 
“再见！”她低声说道。然后她使出浑身解数，朝他挥了挥前腿。

She never moved again. Next day, as the Ferris 
wheel was being taken apart and the race horses were 
being loaded into vans and the entertainers were pack- 
ing up their belongings and driving away in their 
trailers, Charlotte died. The Fair Grounds were soon 
deserted. The sheds and buildings were empty and 
forlorn. The infield was littered with bottles and trash. 
Nobody, of the hundreds of people that had visited 
the Fair, knew that a grey spider had played the most 
important part of all. No one was with her when she 
died. 
她再也没有动过。第二天，当摩天轮被拆卸，赛马被装上货车，演艺人员收拾行装，开着拖车离开时，夏洛特去世了。游乐场很快变得空无一人。棚屋和建筑物空空荡荡，一片凄凉。内场遍地都是瓶子和垃圾。数百名曾来过游乐场的游客中，没有人知道一只灰蜘蛛在其中扮演了最重要的角色。她去世时，身边空无一人。

4ND SO Wilbur came home to his beloved 
 manure pile in the barn cellar. His was a 
strange homecoming. Around his neck he 
wore a medal of honor; in his mouth he 
held a sac of spider’s eggs. There is no place like home, 
Wilbur thought, as he placed Charlotte’s five hundred 
and fourteen unborn children carefully in a safe corner. 
The barn smelled good. His friends the sheep and the 
geese were glad to see him back. 
第四天，威尔伯回到了他心爱的谷仓地窖里的粪堆旁。他的归来有些奇特。他脖子上挂着一枚荣誉勋章，嘴里叼着一袋蜘蛛卵。威尔伯心想，没有比家更好的地方了。他小心翼翼地把夏洛特腹中的五百一十四个孩子放在一个安全的角落里。谷仓里弥漫着一股好闻的气味。他的朋友们——绵羊和鹅——都为他的归来感到高兴。

The geese gave him a noisy welcome. 
鹅群用喧闹声欢迎了他。

“Congratu-congratu-congratulations!” they cried. 
“Nice work.” 
“恭喜！恭喜！恭喜！”他们喊道，“干得漂亮！”

Mr. Zuckerman took the medal from Wilbur’s neck 
and hung it on a nail over the pigpen, where visitors 
could examine it. Wilbur himself could look at it 
whenever he wanted to. 
祖克曼先生从威尔伯脖子上取下奖章，把它挂在猪圈上方的钉子上，供游客参观。威尔伯自己也可以随时查看。

In the days that followed, he was very happy. He 
grew to a great size. He no longer worried about being 
killed, for he knew that Mr. Zuckerman would keep 
him as long as he lived. Wilbur often thought of Char- 
接下来的日子里，他非常高兴。他长得很高大。他不再担心会被杀，因为他知道祖克曼先生会一直照顾他。威尔伯经常想起查尔——

lotte. A few strands of her old web still hung in the 
doorway. Every day Wilbur would stand and look at 
the torn, empty web, and a lump would come to his 
throat. No one had ever had such a friend — so affec- 
tionate, so loyal, and so skillful. 
洛特。她以前织的蛛网还有几根线头挂在门口。每天，威尔伯都会站在那里看着那张破损空荡的蛛网，喉咙哽咽。从来没有人有过这样的朋友——如此深情，如此忠诚，如此技艺高超。

The autumn days grew shorter, Lurvy brought the 
squashes and pumpkins in from the garden and piled 
them on the barn floor, where they wouldn’t get nipped 
on frosty nights. The maples and birches turned bright 
colors and the wind shook them and they dropped 
their leaves one by one to the ground. Under the wild 
apple trees in the pasture, the red little apples lay thick 
on the ground, and the sheep gnawed them and the 
geese gnawed them and foxes came in the night and 
sniffed them. One evening, just before Christmas, snow 
began falling. It covered house and barn and fields and 
woods. Wilbur had never seen snow before. When 
morning came he went out and plowed the drifts in his 
yard, for the fun of it. Fern and Avery arrived, drag- 
ging a sled. They coasted down the lane and out onto 
the frozen pond in the pasture. 
秋日渐短，卢维把花园里的南瓜和冬瓜搬进谷仓，堆放在地上，这样它们就不会在霜冻的夜晚被冻伤。枫树和白桦树的叶子变得鲜艳，风吹动着它们，树叶一片片飘落。牧场里的野苹果树下，红彤彤的小苹果密密麻麻地铺在地上，绵羊啃着，鹅也啃着，狐狸在夜里过来嗅着。圣诞节前的一个傍晚，雪开始下了起来。房子、谷仓、田野和树林都被雪覆盖了。威尔伯以前从未见过雪。第二天早上，他出去犁院子里的积雪，纯粹是为了好玩。弗恩和艾弗里拖着雪橇来了。他们沿着小路滑行，来到牧场里结冰的池塘边。

“Coasting is the most fun there is,” said Avery. 
“滑翔是最有趣的事情，”艾弗里说。

“The most fun there is,” retorted Fern, “is when - 
the Ferris wheel stops and Henry and I are in the 
top car and Henry makes the car swing and we can 
see everything for miles and miles and miles.” 
“最有趣的是，”费恩反驳道，“摩天轮停下来的时候，我和亨利坐在顶层车厢里，亨利让车厢旋转，我们可以看到方圆几英里内的景色。”

“Goodness, are you still thinking about that ol’ Fer- 
ris wheel?” said Avery in disgust. “The Fair was weeks 
and weeks ago.” 
“我的天，你还在想着那个老摩天轮呢？”艾弗里厌恶地说，“博览会都过去好几个星期了。”

“I think about it all the time,” said Fern, picking 
snow from her ear. 
“我一直在想这件事，”费恩一边说着，一边从耳朵里抠出积雪。

After Christmas the thermometer dropped to ten 
below zero. Cold settled on the world. The pasture was 
bleak and frozen. The cows stayed in the barn all the 
time now, except on sunny mornings when they went 
out and stood in the barnyard in the lee of the straw 
pile. The sheep stayed near the barn, too, for protec- 
tion. When they were thirsty they ate snow. The 
geese hung around the barnyard the way boys hang 
around a drug store, and Mr. Zuckerman fed them com 
and turnips to keep them cheerful. 
圣诞节过后，气温骤降至零下十度。寒意笼罩大地。牧场荒凉冰冷。除了晴朗的早晨，奶牛们整天都待在牛棚里，只有在阳光明媚的早晨才会出来，站在谷仓院子里背风的稻草堆旁。羊群也待在谷仓附近避风。它们渴了就吃雪。鹅群像男孩们在药店附近闲逛一样在谷仓院子里游荡，祖克曼先生喂它们玉米和萝卜，让它们开心起来。

“Many, many, many thanks!” they always said, 
when they saw food coming. 
每当看到食物端上来，他们总是说：“非常非常感谢！”

Templeton moved indoors when winter came. His 
ratty home under the pig trough was too chilly, so he 
fixed himself a cozy nest in the barn behind the grain 
bins. He lined it with bits of dirty newspapers and 
rags, and whenever he found a trinket or a keepsake he 
carried it home and stored it there. He continued to 
visit Wilbur three times a day, exactly at mealtime, 
and Wilbur kept the promise he had made. Wilbur let 
the rat eat first. Then, when Templeton couldn’t hold 
another mouthful, Wilbur would eat. As a result of 
overeating, Templeton grew bigger and fatter than 
any rat you ever saw. He was gigantic. He was as big 
as a young woodchuck. 
冬天来临，坦普尔顿搬进了屋里。他原本在猪槽下的破窝太冷了，于是他在谷仓后面的粮仓里给自己搭了个舒适的窝。他用脏报纸和破布铺垫窝里，每当找到小玩意儿或纪念品，他都会带回家藏起来。他仍然每天三次，准时在饭点拜访威尔伯，而威尔伯也信守承诺。威尔伯总是先让老鼠吃，等坦普尔顿吃不下之后，威尔伯才会吃。由于吃得太多，坦普尔顿变得比你见过的任何老鼠都更大更胖。他简直是个巨人，跟一只小土拨鼠一样大。

The old sheep spoke to him about his size one day. 
“You would live longer,” said the old sheep, “if you 
ate less.” 
有一天，老羊跟他谈起了他的体型。“如果你少吃点，”老羊说，“你会活得更久。”

“Who wants to live forever?” sneered the rat. “I am 
naturally a heavy eater and I get untold satisfaction 
from the pleasures of the feast.” He patted his stomach, 
grinned at the sheep, and crept upstairs to lie down. 
“谁想永生？”老鼠冷笑道，“我天生食量惊人，饱餐一顿让我无比满足。”他拍了拍肚子，冲着绵羊咧嘴一笑，然后爬上楼躺了下来。

All winter Wilbur watched over Charlotte’s egg sac 
as though he were guarding his own children. He had 
scooped out a special place in the manure for the sac, 
next to the board fence. On very cold nights he lay so 
that his breath would warm it. For Wilbur, nothing in 
life was so important as this small round object — noth- 
ing else mattered. Patiently he awaited the end of 
winter and the coming of the little spiders. Life is 
always a rich and steady time when you are waiting for 
something to happen or to hatch. The winter ended 
at last. 
整个冬天，威尔伯都守护着夏洛的卵囊，就像守护自己的孩子一样。他在木板围栏旁的粪堆里挖了个地方，专门放着卵囊。在寒冷的夜晚，他会趴在那里，用自己的呼吸温暖卵囊。对威尔伯来说，生命中没有什么比这个小小的圆球更重要——其他一切都无关紧要。他耐心地等待着冬天的结束和小蜘蛛的到来。当你等待着某件事发生或孵化时，生活总是充实而稳定的。冬天终于结束了。

“I heard the frogs today,” said the old sheep one 
evening. “Listen! You can hear them now.” 
“我今天听到蛙鸣了，”一天晚上，老羊说道。“听！你现在也能听到了。”

Wilbur stood still and cocked his ears. From the 
pond, in shrill chorus, came the voices of hundreds of 
little frogs. 
威尔伯站着不动，竖起了耳朵。池塘里传来数百只小青蛙尖锐的合唱声。

“Springtime,” said the old sheep, thoughtfully. “An- 
other spring.” As she walked away, Wilbur saw a new 
lamb following her. It was only a few hours old. 
“春天来了，”老羊若有所思地说，“又一个春天。”她走开时，威尔伯看到一只小羊羔跟在她身后。它才出生几个小时。

The snows melted and ran away. The streams and 
ditches bubbled and chattered with rushing water. A 
sparrow with a streaky breast arrived and sang. The 
light strengthened, the mornings came sooner. Almost 
every morning there was another new lamb in the 
sheepfold. The goose was sitting on nine eggs. The 
sky seemed wider and a warm wind blew. The last 
remaining strands of Charlotte’s old web floated away 
and vanished. 
积雪融化，奔流不息。溪流和沟渠里潺潺流水，发出阵阵鸣叫。一只胸前有条纹的麻雀飞来，唱起了歌。阳光渐强，清晨来得更早。几乎每天早晨，羊圈里都会多出一只小羊羔。鹅正在孵九个蛋。天空似乎更宽广了，暖风吹拂。夏洛特织的旧网最后几缕丝线也飘散而去，消失不见了。

One fine sunny morning, after breakfast, Wilbur 
stood watching his precious sac. He wasn’t thinking of 
anything much. As he stood there, he noticed some- 
thing move. He stepped closer and stared. A tiny spider 
crawled from the sac. It was no bigger than a grain of 
sand, no bigger than the head of a pin. Its body was 
grey with a black stripe underneath. Its legs were grey 
and tan. It looked just like Charlotte. 
在一个阳光明媚的早晨，吃过早饭后，威尔伯站在那里，凝视着他珍贵的袋子。他什么也没想。他站在那里，突然注意到有什么东西动了。他走近一看，一只小蜘蛛从袋子里爬了出来。它比一粒沙子还小，比针头还小。它的身体是灰色的，腹部有一条黑色的条纹。它的腿是灰褐色的。它看起来和夏洛特一模一样。

Wilbur trembled all over when he saw it. The little 
spider waved at him. Then Wilbur looked more closely. 
Two more little spiders crawled out and waved. They 
climbed round and round on the sac, exploring their 
new world. Then three more little spiders. Then eight. 
Then ten. Charlotte’s children were here at last. 
威尔伯看到它时浑身颤抖。小蜘蛛朝他挥了挥手。威尔伯凑近仔细一看。又有两只小蜘蛛爬了出来，也挥了挥手。它们在蛛囊上爬来爬去，探索着它们的新世界。然后又来了三只小蜘蛛。接着是八只。然后是十只。夏洛的孩子们终于来了。

Wilbur’s heart pounded. He began to squeal. Then 
he raced in circles, kicking manure into the air. Then 
he turned a back flip. Then he planted his front feet 
and came to a stop in front of Charlotte’s children. 
威尔伯的心怦怦直跳。他开始尖叫。然后他绕着圈跑，把粪便踢得漫天飞舞。接着他翻了个后空翻。然后他前爪着地，停在了夏洛特的孩子们面前。

“Hello, there!” he said. 
“你好啊！”他说。

The first spider said hello, but its voice was so small 
Wilbur couldn’t hear it. 
第一只蜘蛛说了声你好，但是它的声音太小了，威尔伯听不见。

“I am an old friend of your mother’s,” said Wilbur. 
“I’m glad to see you. Are you all right? Is everything 
all right?” 
“我是你母亲的老朋友，”威尔伯说。“很高兴见到你。你还好吗？一切都好吗？”

The little spiders waved their forelegs at him. Wil- 
bur could see by the way they acted that they were glad 
to see him. 
“Is there anything I can get you? Is there anything 
you need?” 
小蜘蛛们朝他挥舞着前腿。威尔伯从它们的举动中看出，它们很高兴见到他。“我能帮您拿点什么吗？您需要什么吗？”

The young spiders just waved. For several days and 
several nights they crawled here and there, up and 
down, around and about, waving at Wilbur, trailing 
tiny draglines behind them, and exploring their home. 
There were dozens and dozens of them. Wilbur 
couldn’t count them, but he knew that he had a great 
many new friends. They grew quite rapidly. Soon each 
was as big as a BB shot. They made tiny webs near 
the sac. 
小蜘蛛们只是挥了挥手。接下来的几天几夜，它们爬来爬去，上上下下，绕来绕去，一边向威尔伯挥手，一边拖着细小的蛛丝，探索着它们的巢穴。它们有几十只，威尔伯数不过来，但他知道自己多了很多新朋友。它们长得很快，很快每只都像 BB 弹那么大了。它们在蛛囊附近织起了细小的网。

Then came a quiet morning when Mr. Zuckerman 
opened a door on the north side. A warm draft of rising 
air blew softly through the barn cellar. The air smelled 
of the damp earth, of the spruce woods, of the sweet 
springtime. The baby spiders felt the warm updraft. 
One spider climbed to the top of the fence. Then it did 
something that came as a great surprise to Wilbur. The 
spider stood on its head, pointed its spinnerets in the 
air, and let loose a cloud of fine silk. The silk formed a 
balloon. As Wilbur watched, the spider let go of the 
fence and rose into the air. 
在一个宁静的早晨，祖克曼先生打开了北侧的一扇门。一股温暖的上升气流轻轻地吹进了谷仓的地窖。空气中弥漫着潮湿泥土、云杉林和春天的芬芳。小蜘蛛们感受到了这股温暖的上升气流。一只蜘蛛爬到了篱笆顶上。然后，它做了一件让威尔伯大吃一惊的事情。蜘蛛倒立起来，将纺器指向空中，吐出一团细密的丝。丝线形成了一个气球。威尔伯目睹着，蜘蛛松开了篱笆，飞向了空中。

“Good-bye!” it said, as it sailed through the door- 
way. 
“再见！”它说着，便穿过了门口。

“Wait a minute!” screamed Wilbur. “Where do 
you think you’re going?” 
“等等！”威尔伯尖叫道，“你这是要去哪儿？”

But the spider was already out of sight. Then another 
baby spider crawled to the top of the fence, stood on 
its head, made a balloon, and sailed away. Then another 
spider. Then another. The air was soon filled with tiny 
balloons, each balloon carrying a spider. 
但蜘蛛已经消失不见了。接着，另一只小蜘蛛爬到篱笆顶上，倒立起来，卷起一个气球，飘走了。然后又是一只蜘蛛。接着又是一只。很快，空中就充满了无数个小气球，每个气球里都装着一只蜘蛛。

Wilbur was frantic. Charlotte’s babies were disap- 
pearing at a great rate. 
威尔伯急疯了。夏洛特的婴儿们正以惊人的速度消失。

“Come back, children!” he cried. 
“孩子们，回来！”他喊道。

“Good-bye!” they called. “Good-bye, good-bye!” 
At last one little spider took time enough to stop and 
talk to Wilbur before making its balloon. 
“再见！”它们喊道。“再见，再见！”最后，一只小蜘蛛停下来，在制作气球之前和威尔伯说了几句话。

“We’re leaving here on the warm updraft. This is 
our moment for setting forth. We are aeronauts and we 
“我们将借助这股暖流离开这里。这是我们启程的时刻。我们是航空员，我们

are going out into the world to make webs for our- 
selves.” 
我们要走向世界，为自己编织蛛网。

“But where ?” asked Wilbur. 
“可是在哪儿呢？”威尔伯问道。

“Wherever the wind takes us. High, low. Near, far. 
East, west. North, south. We take to the breeze, we 
go as we please.” 
“无论风把我们带到哪里，高处，低处，近处，远处，东处，西处，北处，南处。我们乘风而行，随心所欲。”

“Are all of you going?” asked Wilbur. “You can’t 
all go. I would be left alone, with no friends. Your 
mother wouldn’t want that to happen, I’m sure.” 
“你们都要去吗？”威尔伯问。“你们不能都去。我会孤零零一个人，没有朋友。我相信你妈妈也不希望那样。”

The air was now so full of balloonists that the barn 
cellar looked almost as though a mist had gathered. 
Balloons by the dozen were rising, circling, and drift- 
ing away through the door, sailing off on the gentle 
wind. Cries of “Good-bye, good-bye, good-bye!” came 
weakly to Wilbur’s ears. He couldn’t bear to watch 
any more. In sorrow he sank to the ground and closed 
his eyes. This seemed like the end of the world, to be 
deserted by Charlotte’s children. Wilbur cried himself 
to sleep. 
空气中弥漫着热气球，谷仓的地窖仿佛被一层薄雾笼罩。成群的气球升空、盘旋，然后飘出谷仓的门，随风飘向远方。威尔伯隐隐约约地听到孩子们的告别声：“再见，再见，再见！”他再也无法忍受眼前的景象。悲伤之下，他瘫倒在地，闭上了双眼。夏洛特的孩子们抛弃了他，这仿佛是世界末日。威尔伯哭着睡着了。

When he woke it was late afternoon. He looked at 
the egg sac. It was empty. He looked into the air. The 
balloonists were gone. Then he walked drearily to the 
doorway, where Charlotte’s w T eb used to be. He was 
standing there, thinking of her, when he heard a small 
voice. 
他醒来时已是傍晚。他看了看卵囊，里面空空如也。他抬头望向天空，热气球已经飞走了。然后，他垂头丧气地走到门口，那里曾经是夏洛特的家。他站在那里，想着她，这时他听到一个细小的声音。

“Salutations!” it said. “I’m up here.” 
“你好！”它说道，“我在这儿呢。”

“So am I,” said another tiny voice. 
“我也是，”另一个细小的声音说道。

“So am I,” said a third voice. “Three of us are stay- 
ing. We like this place, and we like you.” 
“我也是，”第三个声音说道。“我们三个要留下来。我们喜欢这里，也喜欢你。”

Wilbur looked up. At the top of the doorway three 
small webs were being constructed. On each web, 
working busily was one of Charlotte’s daughters. 
威尔伯抬起头。门楣上方，三张小网正在织成。每张网上，都有夏洛特的一个女儿在忙碌地织着网。

“Can I take this to mean,” asked Wilbur, “that you 
have definitely decided to live here in the barn cellar, 
and that I am going to have three friends?” 
“我是否可以这样理解，”威尔伯问道，“你已经决定住在谷仓的地窖里，而且我将有三个朋友？”

“You can indeed,” said the spiders. 
“当然可以，”蜘蛛们说。

“What are your names, please?” asked Wilbur, 
trembling with joy. 
“请问你们叫什么名字？”威尔伯激动得浑身颤抖地问道。

“I’ll tell you my name,” replied the first little spider, 
“if you’ll tell me why you are trembling.” 
“如果你告诉我你为什么发抖，我就告诉你我的名字，”第一只小蜘蛛回答说。

“I’m trembling with joy,” said Wilbur. 
“我高兴得浑身发抖，”威尔伯说。

“Then my name is Joy,” said the first spider. 
“那我的名字就叫乔伊，”第一只蜘蛛说道。

“What was my mother’s middle initial?” asked the 
second spider. 
“我母亲名字的中间名首字母是什么？”第二只蜘蛛问道。

“A,” said Wilbur.   “A，”威尔伯说。

“Then my name is Aranea,” said the spider. 
“那我的名字叫阿拉尼亚，”蜘蛛说道。

“How about me?” asked the third spider. “Will you 
just pick out a nice sensible name for me — something 
not too long, not too fancy, and not too dumb?” 
“那我呢？”第三只蜘蛛问道，“你能不能帮我取个好听又合适的名字——不要太长，不要太花哨，也不要太傻？”

Wilbur thought hard.   威尔伯认真地思考着。

“Nellie?” he suggested.   “内莉？”他提议道。

“Fine, I like that very much,” said the third spider. 
“You may call me Nellie.” She daintily fastened her 
orb line to the next spoke of the web. 
“好啊，我很喜欢这个名字，”第三只蜘蛛说，“你可以叫我内莉。”她轻盈地将她的圆线系在了蛛网的下一个辐条上。

Wilbur’s heart brimmed with happiness. He felt 
that he should make a short speech on this very impor- 
tant occasion. 
威尔伯心中充满了喜悦。他觉得在这个非常重要的场合，他应该发表一个简短的讲话。

“Joy! Aranea! Nellie!” he began. “Welcome to the 
barn cellar. You have chosen a hallowed doorway from 
which to string your webs. I think it is only fair to tell 
you that I was devoted to your mother. I owe my very 
life to her. She was brilliant, beautiful, and loyal to the 
end. I shall always treasure her memory. To you, her 
daughters, I pledge my friendship, forever and ever.” 
“乔伊！阿拉尼亚！内莉！”他开口道，“欢迎来到谷仓地窖。你们选择了一扇神圣的门来编织你们的蛛网。我觉得有必要告诉你们，我非常敬爱你们的母亲。我的生命都归功于她。她才华横溢，美丽动人，至死忠诚。我将永远珍藏对她的记忆。我向你们，她的女儿们，许下永远的友谊。”

“I pledge mine,” said Joy. 
“我承诺，”乔伊说道。

“I do, too,” said Aranea. 
“我也是，”阿拉尼亚说。

“And so do I,” said Nellie, who had just managed to 
catch a small gnat. 
“我也是，”内莉说道，她刚刚抓到了一只小蚊子。

It was a happy day for Wilbur. And many more 
happy, tranquil days followed. 
对威尔伯来说，这是快乐的一天。此后，又过了许多快乐、平静的日子。

As time went on, and the months and years came and 
went, he was never without friends. Fern did not come 
regularly to the barn any more. She was growing up, 
and was careful to avoid childish things, like sitting on 
a milk stool near a pigpen. But Charlotte’s children and 
grandchildren and great grandchildren, year after year, 
lived in the doorway. Each spring there were new little 
spiders hatching out to take the place of the old. Most 
of them sailed away, on their balloons. But always two 
or three stayed and set up housekeeping in the door- 
way. 
随着时光流逝，岁月如梭，他的朋友却从未间断。弗恩不再像以前那样经常来谷仓了。她渐渐长大，小心翼翼地避免做些孩子气的事，比如坐在猪圈附近的牛奶凳上。但夏洛特的子孙后代，年复一年，都住在谷仓门口。每年春天，都会有新的小蜘蛛破壳而出，取代老蜘蛛的位置。它们中的大多数乘着气球飞走了。但总有两三只留下来，在门口安家落户。

Mr. Zuckerman took fine care of Wilbur all the rest 
of his days, and the pig was often visited by friends and 
admirers, for nobody ever forgot the year of his tri- 
umph and the miracle of the web. Life in the barn was 
very good — night and day, winter and summer, spring 
and fall, dull days and bright days. It was the best place 
to be, thought Wilbur, this warm delicious cellar, with 
the garrulous geese, the changing seasons, the heat of 
the sun, the passage of swallows, the nearness of rats, 
the sameness of sheep, the love of spiders, the smell of 
manure, and the glory of everything. 
祖克曼先生在威尔伯余生中都悉心照料着他，这头猪也经常有朋友和仰慕者来看望他，因为没有人会忘记他那辉煌的一年以及他织网的奇迹。猪圈里的生活非常美好——无论昼夜，无论冬夏，无论春秋，无论阴晴。威尔伯心想，这温暖舒适的地窖真是个好地方，有叽叽喳喳的鹅，四季更迭，阳光炙烤，燕子飞过，老鼠近在咫尺，羊群依旧如故，蜘蛛也乐于与他相处，粪便的气味弥漫，一切都如此美好。


Wilbur never forgot Charlotte. Although he loved 
her children and grandchildren dearly, none of the new 
spiders ever quite took her place in his heart. She was 
in a class by herself. It is not often that someone comes 
along who is a true friend and a good writer. Charlotte 
was both. 
威尔伯从未忘记夏洛特。虽然他深爱着她的孩子和孙辈，但没有一只新蜘蛛能取代她在他心中的位置。她独一无二。既是真挚的朋友又是优秀的作家，这样的人并不多见。夏洛特正是如此。

THE END   剧终

Wilbur was lovingly raised by a girl 
named Fern. But now he’s a barn pig. He’s 
bored and lonely — until he meets Char- 
lotte, the beautiful grey spider who also lives 
in the barn. 
威尔伯从小被一个名叫弗恩的女孩精心抚养长大。但现在他成了一头谷仓里的猪。他感到无聊又孤独——直到他遇到了夏洛特，那只美丽的灰色蜘蛛也住在谷仓里。

Charlotte thinks of a wonderful way to 
save Wilbur from a pig’s unhappy fate. Her 
clever plan will delight you, in this famous 
story 

夏洛想出了一个绝妙的办法，可以拯救威尔伯免于变成猪的悲惨命运。在这个著名的故事中，她巧妙的计划一定会让你感到惊喜。
